{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx1440\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The Works Cited page is optional.\
\
Chicago Style citations should be formatted as follows:\
\
\pard\tx1440\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Book with one author
\b0 \
Pollan, Michael. 
\i The Omnivore\'92s Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals.
\i0  New York: Penguin, 2006.\
\

\b Book with two authors
\b0 \
Ward, Geoffrey C., and Ken Burns. 
\i The War: An Intimate History, 1941\'961945
\i0 . New York: Knopf, 2007.\
\

\b Editor, translator, or compiler instead of author
\b0 \
Lattimore, Richmond, trans. 
\i The Iliad of Homer.
\i0  Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1951.\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Book published electronically
\b0 \
Kurland, Philip B., and Ralph Lerner, eds. 
\i The Founders\'92 Constitution.
\i0  Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987. Accessed February 28, 2010. http://press-pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/\
\

\b Article in a print journal
\b0 \
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Weinstein, Joshua I. \'93The Market in Plato\'92s Republic.\'94 Classical Philology 104 (2009): 439\'9658.\
\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Article in an online journal\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Kossinets, Gueorgi, and Duncan J. Watts. \'93Origins of Homophily in an Evolving Social Network.\'94 American Journal of Sociology 115 (2009): 405\'9650. Accessed February 28, 2010. doi:10.1086/599247.\
\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Thesis or dissertation\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Choi, Mihwa. \'93Contesting Imaginaires in Death Rituals during the Northern Song Dynasty.\'94 PhD diss., University of Chicago, 2008.\
\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Website\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Google. \'93Google Privacy Policy.\'94 Last modified March 11, 2009. http://www.google.com/intl/en/privacypolicy.html.\
McDonald\'92s Corporation. \'93McDonald\'92s Happy Meal Toy Safety Facts.\'94 Accessed July 19, 2008. http://www.mcdonalds.com/corp/about/factsheets.html.}