{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 After having completed the music-based VR environment 
\f1\i Spektra
\f0\i0 , testing it on participants, and using it in live performance, I reflected in a macrocosmic sense on the entirety of the project from the viewpoint of music composition. I wandered for some time in the VR realm, linked to music by a lengthy tether. In order to draw concrete conclusions from the work as it applies to modern music composition, I needed to create a framework of terminology and understanding that had previously existed in its components but not in its totality. This is always the charge of those that foray into VR development. VR does not have a long lineage like other artistic mediums, and it is essentially invisible technology since it can be used towards so many different practical, and wonderfully impractical ends. It seemed senseless to use the same frameworks posited by VR developers working in augmented reality surgery, or even to an extent, VR game {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B714277D-0923-40FA-A8E2-82230BA650D8"}}{\fldrslt design.}}\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 VR is a hard topic to explain because it\'92s hard to contain. It directly connects to every other discipline. (Lanier 2017, 54)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Following this argument, I conducted more research in order to forge a template for understanding, for containing a small subgenre of VR within a malleable net of definitions, and thus creating more music-based VR. The areas I researched in this pursuit included dreams, psychedelic drugs, et al. Notable figures in VR research such as Lanier suggest that these seemingly disparate disciplines might be intimately linked to VR:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 Twentieth VR Definition: Like lucid dreaming, except that (a) more than one person can take on roles in the same experience, (b) the quality is not as good, and (c) you have to work to program VR if you want to be in control, which you should want. Dreams, meanwhile, are often best if you don\'92t seek to control them. Even Stephen La Berge seeks to be nonlucid in most of his dreams since it is in untethered dreams that the brain surprises and renews itself. (Lanier 2017, 149) 
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 While this research informed my dissertation work it was not central to the findings discussed in this dissertation so I will not give it a full treatment here \'97 instead I will briefly highlight formal and stylistic influences in research on dreams and the \'93cyberpunk\'94 subculture. These two disciplines encapsulate findings present in many other related disciplines that I researched for my own work, and thus will provide a summarized view of this broader research. The distillation of many findings in these disciplines seem to mirror the concept of Joseph Campbell's monomyth which will be discussed at the end of this section.}