{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Any writing on virtual reality must necessarily encompass thoughts in many different disciplines. Author, father of virtual reality, and entrepreneur Jaron Lanier serves as a connection point between many disparate disciplines. Jaron\'92s foray into virtual reality began with his first company VPL Research. The "VPL" in VPL Research stands for "Virtual Programming Languages". Despite the company being most known for devices such as the DataGlove and the EyePhone, its original impetus was to create a programming language that used the virtual world to create programs in real time. The early products developed by VPL and early experiments conducted make up the fundamental DNA of modern day game development. Products such as the DataGlove were far before their time and suffered from a lack of technological advancement sufficient to manufacture them in their ideal forms. Despite working in a rudimentary way, peripherals such as the DataGlove lacked the high level of data resolution that has become desirable and to a degree necessary to sustain deep immersion within a virtual simulation. Evolution and proliferation of original VPL concepts such as the DataGlove can be seen in many modern day virtual reality peripherals such as the HaptX glove (\'93Haptx,\'94 n.d.).\
Unfortunately, the process of embracing glitches in seeking to radically innovate is a drive that has become largely absent in large VR game studios. Lanier details. One of these such glitches:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 It was time for me to enter a brand-new virtual world.\
I squinted up at my hand against a perfectly clear blue sky. My gargantuan hand, soaring above downtown Seattle. It might have been a thousand feet from wrist to fingertip.\
There was a bug, obviously. A hand should be about the right size to pick up an apple or baseball, not bigger than a skyscraper. You shouldn\'92t have to measure a hand in feet, much less thousands of them. (Lanier 2017, xiii)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Instead of most companies embodying a visceral drive towards these kind of unique and unreal experiences, modern-day development holds realism in higher regard.\
More importantly than VPL\'92s, technological developments, was its status and function as a sociocultural hub of different ideas, and different groups of people that otherwise may have not met. These interactions between disciplines are fundamental for furthering innovation and allowing fields to evolve. Now more easily facilitated by technology, an increasing number of these interactions suggest that emergent forms of art will emerge so quickly and in such great number that one will be unable to formalize them before their next mutation. This phenomenon increases the importance of studying early collaborations that occurred during a slower rate of technological advancement. John Chowning writes about one such important collaboration at the genesis of the field of computer music:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 It is fortunate that these two scientists/engineers [John Pierce, and Max Matthews]-who cultivated a nexus between science and art, and who invited many composers and artists to their laboratories (e.g., Varese and Cage) to share the possibilities that they saw-were willing to place these nascent musical studies in the public view, confident in the intellectual content of their ideas, which few others could see (Chowning 2008, 1)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 In the history of VR these collaborations are far reaching due to the fundamental nature of the platform being developed for. In the early days of Silicon Valley, Lanier had a run in with counterculture icon Timothy Leary. Lanier was required to sneak Leary out of a retreat he was leading in the trunk of a car (Lanier 2017, 150\'9652). After this initial meeting Leary worked at VPL (hackertrips 2015) Timothy Leary\'92s main area of interest during this time was research on other mediums that could provide the LSD experience legally . This research resulted in a 1994 compilation of interviews and musings on this subject (Leary 1994). Included in the work are interviews with artists such as William S. Burroughs, Allen Ginsberg, Winona Ryder, David Byrne, William Gibson, and Susan Sarandon. The connection between psychedelics and virtual reality is an undeniably influential phenomenon that can be mined to engage all user groups. The bringing together of separate influences to see existing structures through novel lenses is an idea that is also at the core of postmodal art.}