{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Postmodal is the term that contextualizes my larger body of research. It is necessary to sufficiently define this term to discuss my specific work in integrating audio and virtual reality. Before defining postmodality, one must define what it is not. Postmodality is not the same term as multimedia, although multimedia art can be under the umbrella of postmodality. Multimedia art is, by its most simple definition, artwork that employs the use of two or more mediums. The term multimedia says nothing about who creates the different component parts of the work. Multimedia work can be created by a single artist working in multiple mediums, or by multiple artists contributing to the work in various capacities across various mediums. Multimedia art is often compartmentalized. This compartmentalization is most evident in the division of mediums in the work. Whether the work is created by multiple artists, or a single artist each singular medium employed in the work is typically conscious of meeting specific concerns such as best practices, established techniques, etc. For example, in a multimedia work involving video, the video artist will be aware of one of the most basic best practices of video art, aspect ratio. Most commonly, the video artist will select an aspect ratio that has been long established in the medium. If the artist chooses to use a different aspect ratio then they are consciously going against an established tradition and are likely aware of this.\
Postmodality questions the division between mediums and posits the long-term superiority of portable aesthetic over technical knowledge. My first experience with this was when I created the work INDRA//NET for 3D animation and digital audio. In the period before the creation of INDRA//NET, I classify myself as a computer music musician who had some experience with 3D animation. My multimedia works before INDRA//NET followed the typical workflow pipeline of someone creating an animation. This pipeline involved the creation of the 3D animation and then sound tracking this animation after its completion. Before beginning work on INDRA//NET I had a very clear image of what sounds I wanted in the work. After meditating on the sounds for some time I began to have a clear image of what the visuals should look like. This unfolding process of ideas made it clear to me that the audio must be developed first in the creation of that work. After finishing the audio for the piece, I began work on the 3D animation component. During this process the audio inspired me to create elements in the animation that I believe I would not have otherwise come up with had I created the visuals before the audio.\
In this mutable process of multimedia creation, the very choice of mediums, how to employ them, in what order, etc. become as much a conscious part of the work as the sonic material. An artist cannot simply begin their journey working in postmodality. An artist must begin working in a single school in a single medium with a clear sense of desirable and undesirable elements. Conforming and rebelling against this established system will allow the artist to discover their own aesthetic. My aesthetic was forged within the framework of European modernist composers. Once I learned the \'93rules\'94 of the game of European modernist composition I was able to begin questioning the rules that did not make sense to me and accepting the rules that made sense to my aesthetic.\
Once the artist has developed an aesthetic in a given medium, they may begin experimenting with other mediums in conventional and unconventional ways. As the artist tries to port their aesthetic from their original medium into new mediums, they will begin to form a sense of portable aesthetic.  \
It is necessary to foster a sense of portable aesthetic to create work that is truly postmodal, instead of merely multimedia and compartmentalized. Having a unique portable aesthetic allows the artist to permeate each of the mediums employed in a work with their own unique style. Without this portable aesthetic, each of the components of the work are clearly divisible from the other components of the work.\
A clear example of portable aesthetic and postmodal art is the multimedia work of Ryoji Ikeda. Ikeda is a multimedia artist who primarily creates glitch art. Understanding Ikeda\'92s work through the lens of computer music, one can quickly identify a few aesthetic features. These features include rapid on and off audio envelopes, cyclical patterns, and sonic material that contains an element of purity. Examining Ikeda\'92s audiovisual installation Test Pattern, one can clearly see Ikeda\'92s musical aesthetic manifested in the visual domain. Test Pattern is installed in a large industrial setting such as a warehouse. Projection visuals are cast onto the floor and one wall of the space. These projection surfaces are massive with some installations measuring hundreds of meters. \
The projection visuals mirror the aesthetic quality heard in the audio. Rapid on and off envelopes are clearly ported to the visual domain by means of white and gray rectangles that rapidly fade on and off instead of fading in and out. Cyclical patterns are represented in the visuals through recurrence of color and shape. An element of purity is clearly discernible. The piece essentially uses no curves and most of the visual material consists entirely of squares, rectangles, and lines in black, white, or some shade of gray in between. Through full integration of all elements of the work by means of a portable aesthetic that is liberated from any one medium, the entire work becomes unified in a way that encourages the audience to focus on the gestalt, instead of the individual components forming the work.\
My own research is an attempt to create a new work that is entirely postmodal from the ground up. The two main components involved in the work are musical feature extraction and virtual reality. I have attempted to integrate these two features in such a way that the lines between the mediums are significantly blurred. At every stage of the design process I made decisions about what was most representative of my portable aesthetic. The result is a simulation that integrates the two mediums in such a forged way that the user has difficulty delineating between the two.\
To avoid going over the same ground, I've conducted a great deal of research in the fields of virtual reality, as well as in multimedia art from the computer musician perspective. The first section of this dissertation will outline the discoveries made by scholars in the fields of VR and computer music, as well as outsiders and fringe figures from other disciplines that have bearing on discoveries in these fields. I will detail a set of design principles that I have found to be helpful in the process of forging my own portable aesthetic and remaining relational to computer music but not bound by it.\
Although I have worked in many different mediums, these postmodal concepts are difficult to write about in the abstract without applying them to a concrete example. The human body cannot be studied without dissecting one. The concrete example that I have built is a fusion of virtual reality and digital audio into a unique medium.}