{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 At this point, it has been established that the language of symbols is present in musical and postmodal artwork. Before detailing how these symbols play out over time in music, one must understand how they manifest in abstract mediums such as music. In the earlier example of 
\f1\i bitPushIntersection
\f0\i0 , I drew the reader\'92s attention to the symbolic representation and progression of the cross in the work. This symbolic procession as a story was bolstered and mirrored by the audio in the work, but the focus was on the visual element. Again, in the multiple examples presented dealing with operatic interpretations of the Orpheus and Euridice myth, text was the primary driver of the story. This story was enhanced by the music, and the music contained its own distinct symbols, however, the text was the focus of the brief analysis provided. For some time, the missing link in this line of research was the gap between the abstract and patterned world of music, and the framework of symbols. Much has been written about the interaction between symbols and stories by figures such as Jung, L\'e9vi-Strauss, and Campbell, however, very little generalizable knowledge pertaining to the relation of music to symbol has come to light. Reigning theories and frameworks in the fields of musicology and music theory tend to focus on highly literal interpretations of the material such as those put forth by Schaeffer and Schoenberg, or more symbolic interpretations that rely on extramusical information to draw symbolic conclusions, i.e. the theory cannot stand without knowing biographical information about the composer, the design of the score, the conditions of the first performance, etc. It should be noted that both of these ways of understanding are highly useful for different reasons. A technical understanding of the material in the same vein as Schoenberg or Schaeffer is essential to interface correctly with the music of those corresponding musical styles. A more extramusical, symbolic approach, such as that employed by Adamenko proves highly useful when considering a piece of artwork in a musicological sense. The downfall of this approach is in its use by artists wishing to branch out into postmodal art. A visual artist working with a sound designer for example may not have the luxury of knowing biographical or story-producing information about the sound designer. The sound designer them self may not be self-aware of the symbol implications of their own work. The visual artist, applying Adamenko\'92s framework of understanding in this situation may be left at square one, without coherent symbols to relate the visual work to the music. Taking elements from Adamenko\'92s approach, but being able to generalize them slightly more, eliminating their dependence on extramusical features, is a more useful approach for postmodal artists, and cross domain collaborations. I found a highly useable framework for this process in research about visual hallucinations produced by psychedelic drugs.\
The first order of meaning making in music occurs when the listener hears patterns emerge. The human mind is predisposed to recognize patterns in the presence of stimuli. This phenomenon can be seen outside of music in many psychedelic research domains. One such example is the Dream Machine, an apparatus invented by Byron Gysin, William S. Burroughs, and Ian Sommerville that produces flickering light at the rate of 8 to 13 flickers per second. When the flickering is viewed with eyes closed, the viewer experiences mild, closed-eye hallucinations. Another example of this phenomenon is in the study of psychedelic drugs. The term form constant was coined by researcher Heinrich Kl\'fcver, and detailed in his work Mechanisms of Hallucinations. In this paper, Kl\'fcver studies the form of visual hallucinations experienced on mescaline (a psychedelic drug) abstracted from meaning, color, and movement. Kl\'fcver arrived at the conclusion that the essential form constants are as follows:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 (a) grating, lattice, fretwork, filigree, honeycomb, or chessboard; (b) cobweb; (c) tunnel, funnel, alley, cone, or vessel; (d) spiral. Many phenomena are, on close examination, nothing but modifications and transformations of these basic forms. The tendency towards "geometrization," as expressed in these form constants, is also apparent in the following two ways: (a) the forms are frequently repeated, combined, or elaborated into ornamental designs and mosaics of various kinds; (b) the elements constituting these forms, such as the squares in a chessboard design, often have boundaries consisting of geometric forms. At times, the boundaries are represented by lines so thin that it may be impossible to say whether they are black or white. (Kl\'fcver 1942, 176)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 One can clearly see the parallel between Kl\'fcver\'92s research and that of the music theorist. A stimulus is presented, in this case mescaline visuals, and the theorist analyzes the material until arriving at its fundamental components, in this case, \'93form constants\'94. These fundamental components can then be \'93repeated, combined, or elaborated into ornamental designs and mosaics of various kinds\'94 (Kl\'fcver 1942, 176). This research is paralleled in music theory. The theorist is provided with an aural stimulus, i.e. a musical work, and the theorist arrives at the fundamental components of notes and chords. Theorists and composers over the years have had radically different views of what these fundamental components are, and how they should be combined. Composers such as Brahms and Messiaen would have agreed on the fundamental atomic units of music, i.e. notes and durations, but would have differed in preclusions about how these elements should be combined. Many composers and theorists have emerged over the years that have challenged the basic atomic units of music, such as Var\'e8se, and Cage. The most valuable understanding I wish to outline here is not to arrive at some fundamental taxonomy for understanding the pattern recognition that occurs on the part of the listener when consuming music, but to merely establish that this process does in fact occur, and that it is a precondition for meaning making in music. \
The conclusions of this meaning-making process suggest that the brain serves as a reducing valve when confronted with a stimulus. This idea was put forth by Aldous Huxley in his work The Doors of Perception, in which Huxley details a mescaline trip he took. As modern research on psychedelic drugs increases, findings of new studies suggest that Huxley\'92s assertion was correct. The primary researcher involved in the first modern neuroimaging study on participants under the influence of LSD, Dr. Carhart-Harris details this phenomenon:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 Our brains become more constrained and compartmentalised as we develop from infancy into adulthood, and we may become more focused and rigid in our thinking as we mature. In many ways, the brain in the LSD state resembles the state our brains were in when we were infants: free and unconstrained. This also makes sense when we consider the hyper-emotional and imaginative nature of an infant's mind. (Wighton 2016)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 The rigid thinking patterns outlined by Carhart-Harris are so prevalent, and fixed that they can function even when they are not useful. For a number of years, I attended at an institution where the music composition program focused almost exclusively on the production of atonal music. I would sit through many concerts of atonal music severely bored. Usually after the first couple of pieces, something very strange would begin to happen. In densely dissonant and atonal works, I would hear fleeting tonal melodies and chord progressions. The tonal music fragments would jump out of the texture at me and then recede back into the atonal rambling. These fragments often were TV jingles, songs I had been listening to frequently, and other musical fragments that had managed to imprint themselves so strongly on my mind that they now served as the analysis framework that the atonal music was being screened through. Upon speaking with the composers of many of the works, I found that many of the works were generated algorithmically through some sort of serialist or serialist-like process. These algorithmic works produced musical fragments to my ear out of sheer coincidence. Some of the works however were composed intuitively in a freely atonal system. It is curious to wonder if the composer\'92s internal analysis framework, ostensibly conditioned by tonal {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://99DD9276-FEDE-45E3-ADF3-994AF05ED15E"}}{\fldrslt music,}} stepped forward at some level during the composition process to make itself known.\
When we listen to music we are co-creating meaning. The composer provides a guided stimulus for the listener. The listener, applying their own subconscious analytical framework understands the music through their own lens. Certain facets of the music may be highly individual, but the larger archetypical features will remain the same. Despite differences in tuning systems, and scalar organization, consonance is largely the same among all world musics. Composers that have sought to drastically subvert these emergent features through significant willful intervention have provided interesting scientific experiments, but these pieces remain no more indicative or relative to human experience than the output of a computer algorithm. The distinct lack of the use of atonality in all mainstream musics suggests a lack of human connection to the material. \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 In wartime, for instance, one finds increased interest in the works of Homer, Shakespeare, or Tolstoi, and we read with a new understanding those passages that give war its enduring (or \'93archetypal\'94) meaning. They evoke a response from us that is much more profound than it could be from someone who has never known the intense emotional experience of war. (Jung et al. 1968, 99)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 It is notable to examine the case of Schoenberg as a monumental pioneer figure of atonal music. Despite Schoenberg\'92s atonal music being largely unrelatable on a human level to general audiences in the same way that the well-established symbolism of the tonal system was, if one is to look past the music there is a deeper connection to story. Schoenberg\'92s twelve-tone method emphasized rigid adherence to a system, thus decreasing the autonomy of the composer to make intuitive decisions. This limitation of intuition in the compositional process provides less symbolism for the listener to relate to. Most familiar moments while listening to a twelve-tone composition will be provided by coincidence as outlined in the earlier example. Looking deeper, past the music, and into the personal life of Schoenberg, one can derive the symbolism of the use of the twelve-tone method. In 1912 Schoenberg had and was witnessing the formational events leading up to World War I when he wrote the notable atonal work Pierrot Lunaire. Though the work is freely atonal, it employs a number of previously existing classical forms. The symbolic implications of this may have been inspired by the chaos leading up to World War I: the work fits into classical forms, just as many national boundaries still stood at this time, however the contents are in disarray, they are expressive and intuitively composed, but only fleetingly resemble the tonal system that preceded it. This disarray may symbolize the chaos within national borders taking place at this time. \
In 1916 Schoenberg\'92s military service (due to the occurrence of WWI) made it impossible for him to compose uninterrupted. The chaos caused by WWI was exponentially more severe in scale than the events leading up to it. Due to the lack of time to compose uninterrupted, and the sheer number of horrific events outside of the composer\'92s control, it is possible that the seeds of thought for the development of a rigidly controlled system were planted in Schoenberg\'92s mind. In addition to the horror of WWI, the aftermath could have informed the composer\'92s path as well. Devastation and poverty plagued Austria, and the early indicators that another conflict would happen were already starting to emerge. The natural conclusion of this line of thinking was first displayed in the final movement of Schoenberg\'92s 5 St\'fccke, Op. 23 composed between 1920 and 1923. The final movement of this work employs the twelve-tone technique as pitch generator. The symbolic implication of the use of this system is relegation of control to systems over people. People, in the view of the artist living at this time, led nations to war, and civilizations to ruin. As a corollary to this, decreasing dependence on people and increasing it on something else, something more infallible, such as systems, might alleviate these events from happening again, although this comes with its own unique dysfunctions, not the least of which is its austerity in terms of human emotion and thus relatability. This is the inverse of what Jaron Lanier suggests when he writes, \'93Different media designs stimulate different potentials in human nature. We shouldn\'92t seek to make the pack mentality as efficient as possible. We should instead seek to inspire the phenomenon of individual intelligence.\'94 (Lanier 2010, 7). This example of Schoenberg serves to illustrate that musical meaning can be gleaned from the surface of the work, and if it cannot, going more deeply into the systems employed can illuminate the work\'92s symbolic significance, even if the composer has sought to obscure it, or relieve themselves from the duty of providing meaning wittingly or unwittingly to the listener.\
}