{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Outside of in-lab testing, 
\f1\i Spektra
\f0\i0  was showcased publicly as part of a large-scale multimedia work titled MKUltra: Form Constant. The full work was presented in the xMPL performance space at the University of California Irvine. The 
\f1\i Spektra
\f0\i0  apparatus was set up next to the performance area. Spectators could wander the space freely during the performance and put on the VR headset to experience 
\f1\i Spektra
\f0\i0  in real time as it reacted to the live musical performance. \
Reception at this event was generally positive and a number of viewing modalities were demonstrated by the various headset {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F7BE26E5-4353-4206-8723-4CA8F2646A39"}}{\fldrslt wearers.}} Upon interviewing those that used the headset at some point during the performance, I discovered that most users had felt vulnerable when putting the headset on. This was primarily due to the fact that the headset completely obscures vision. Not only would the headset wearer have to stand in front of the entire audience, they would have to do so without being able to see the audience and infer their reactions from nonverbal cues. \
Although I initially considered this to be a design flaw on my part in placing the headset at the front of the performance space, I have come to see it in a different light. Having an audience member come up on stage, next to the musical performer is a nonstandard practice. Having them voluntarily obscure their field of vision goes against two of most peoples\'92 fundamental instincts; social anxiety and a base anxiety of having one\'92s primary sense obscured. I found that most users were able to relax into the experience after an initial increase in their anxiety when first donning the headset. This is akin to the boost of energy a performer feels before going on stage, or even in the initial moments of a performance. To provide the opportunity for audience members to experience the same emotional trajectory, i.e. pre-symbolic story, not only represents Campbell\'92s Hero Cycle on a microcosmic level, but also provides an emotional cohesion and investment with the musical performer. This is a concept that could be ported to various other mediums in the future, and I believe the initial investment, or leap of faith, encouraged the participants to view the entire performance in a more positive light than if they had not made this investment. This inference has been demonstrated widely in the scientific literature. One such experiment concluded the following:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 This study demonstrated in a laboratory experiment that recipients of requests can increase their liking of the requester, find the requester to be more affectionate and sociable, and feel closer to the requester because of the affiliative motive that the request conveys, rather than because of cognitive dissonance or self-perception that results following the helping behavior. (Niiya 2016, 217)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 One of the more common ways in which performers make an early request of the audience is through charging for admission to performances. My own research extracted from the user experience of MKUltra: Form Constant suggests that other requests, especially those involving voluntary confrontation of base anxieties may enhance this effect further.}