{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Aguilar De Arcos, Francisco, Antonio Verdejo-Garc\'eda, Mar\'eda Isabel Peralta-Ram\'edrez, Mar\'eda S\'e1nchez-Barrera, and Miguel P\'e9rez-Garc\'eda. 2005. \'93Experience of Emotions in Substance Abusers Exposed to Images Containing Neutral, Positive, and Negative Affective Stimuli.\'94 Drug and Alcohol Dependence 78 (2): 159\'9667. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2004.10.010.\
Babbitt, Milton. 1958. \'93Who Cares If You Listen?\'94 High Fideltiy, 1958.\
Baguyos, Jeremy. 2016. \'93New Roles for Computer Musicians in S.T.E.A.M.\'94 In ICMC 2016 42nd International Computer Music Conference Proceedings, 280\'9689. Utrecht. http://www.icmc2016.com/proceedings.pdf.\
Bayle, F. 1993. Musique Acousmatique, Propositions, Positions. Buchet/Cha. Paris.\
Besada, Jos\'e9 L. 2014. \'93Computer , Formalisms , Intuition and Metaphors . A Xenakian and Post-Xenakian Approach.\'94 In A. Georgaki and G. Kouroupetroglou (Eds.), Proceedings ICMC|SMC|2014, 14-20 September 2014, Athens, Greece, 93\'9698. Athens. http://www.smc-conference.org/smc-icmc-2014/papers/images/VOL_1/0093.pdf.\
Blocker, D\'e9borah. 2017. \'93The Accademia Degli Alterati and the Invention of a New Form of Dramatic Experience: Myth, Allegory, and Theory in Jacopo Peri\'92s and Ottavio Rinuccini\'92s Euridice (1600) Chapter.\'94 In Dramatic Experience: The Poetics of Drama and the Early Modern Public Sphere(S), edited by Katja Gvozdeva, Tatiana Korneeva, and Kirill Ospovat. Brill.\
Boiler Room. 2014. \'93Jamie Xx Boiler Room London x Young Turks DJ Set.\'94 YouTube. 2014. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HV-nNEXgsOk.\
\'97\'97\'97. 2018. \'93Bonobo Boiler Room New York DJ Set.\'94 YouTube. 2018. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uynCeLheCPc.\
Buisson, Guillaume. 2014. \'93UE4-OSC.\'94 GitHub. 2014. https://github.com/monsieurgustav/UE4-OSC.\
Burroughs, William, and Brion Gysin. 1978. The Third Mind. The Viking Press.\
Burrows, Jared B. 2004. \'93Musical Archetypes and Collective Consciousness\uc0\u8239 : Cognitive Distribution and Free Improvisation\'94 1 (1): 1\'9615.\
Campbell, Joseph. 2008. The Hero with a Thousand Faces. Novato, CA: New World Library.\
Cascone, Kim. 2004. \'93The Aesthetics of Failure: &quot;Post-Digital&quot; Tendencies in Contemporary Computer Music.\'94 In Audio Culture: Readings in Modern Music, 392\'9698. Bloomsbury. http://www.bussigel.com/systemsforplay/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cascone_Aesthetics.pdf.\
Castaneda, Carlos. 1977. The Teachings of Don Juan: A Yaqui Way of Knowledge. New York City: Simon & Schuster.\
Chabris, Christopher, and Daniel Simons. 2011. The Invisible Gorilla: How Our Intuitions Deceive Us. Harmony.\
Chion, Michel. 1983. \'93Guide To Sound Objects.,\'94 210. http://www.ears.dmu.ac.uk/spip.php?page=articleEars&id_article=3597.\
Chowning, John. 2008. \'93Fifty Years of Computer Music: Ideas of the Past Speak to the Future.\'94 Lecture Notes in Computer Science (Including Subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics) 4969 LNCS: 1\'9610. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-85035-9_1.\
Clauser, Henry R. 1988. \'93Towards a Dynamic, Generative Computer Art.\'94 Leonardo 21 (2): 115\'9622. https://doi.org/10.2307/1578545.\
Comicus, Redazione. 2008. \'93RAMIN DJAWADI: COMPOSITORE DI IRON MAN.\'94 2008. https://www.comicus.it/index.php/mainmenu-interviste/item/46280-ramin-djawadi-compositore-di-iron-man.\
Cumming, Ed. 2014. \'93William Gibson: The Man Who Saw Tomorrow.\'94 The Guardian. 2014. https://www.theguardian.com/books/2014/jul/28/william-gibson-neuromancer-cyberpunk-books.\
Dass, Ram. 1978. Be Here Now. Lama Foundation.\
Deppe, Mark. 2017. \'93The Cavalry\'92s Here.\'94 UCI ESports. 2017. http://www.esports.uci.edu/news_articles/overwatch_announcement.html.\
Dhomont, Francis. 1996. \'93Is There a Qu\'e9bec Sound?\'94 Organised Sound 1 (1): 23\'9628. https://econtact.ca/6_2/dhomont_quebecsound.pdf.\
Domingo, Muriel. 2017. \'93Dieter Rams: 10 Timeless Commandments for Good Design.\'94 Interaction Design Foundation. 2017. https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/dieter-rams-10-timeless-commandments-for-good-design.\
Feldman, Morton. 1951. \'93Intersection 2.\'94 New York City: C. F. Peters.\
FredEd919. 2014. \'93Alien Isolation Noise Detection - Laugh of Death.\'94 YouTube. 2014. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C1zqIVnmhgE.\
Gasser, Peter, Katharina Kirchner, and Torsten Passie. 2015. \'93LSD-Assisted Psychotherapy for Anxiety Associated with a Life-Threatening Disease: A Qualitative Study of Acute and Sustained Subjective Effects.\'94 Journal of Psychopharmacology 29 (1): 57\'9668. https://doi.org/10.1177/0269881114555249.\
Gaudiosi, John. 2016. \'93Virtual Reality Video Game Industry to Generate $5.1 Billion in 2016.\'94 Fortune. 2016. http://fortune.com/2016/01/05/virtual-reality-game-industry-to-generate-billions/.\
Gibson, William. 1982. Burning Chrome. http://www.soylentgreene.us/burningchrome.pdf.\
Gibson, William F. 1997. Neuromancer. New York: Penguin Putnam.\
Gluck, Christoph Willibaud. 1914. Orfeo Ed Euridice. Edited by Hermann Abert. Wien: Artaria & Co.\
hackertrips. 2015. \'93An Interview with Mitch Altman (Inventor and Virtual Reality Pioneer from the 80\'92s).\'94 YouTube. 2015. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5TrRO_j_efg#t=4611.\
\'93Haptx.\'94 n.d. https://haptx.com/.\
Haubenstock-Ramati, Roman. 1976. Concerto a Tre: Fur Klavier, Posaune Und Schlagzeug. Copenhagen: Wilhelm Hansen.\
Hope, Al. 2014. Alien: Isolation. USA: Creative Assembly. http://www.alienisolation.com/.\
Intelligence, BI. 2015. \'93Here\'92s How Gaming Will Fuel Rapid Growth in the Virtual Reality Market.\'94 Business Insider. 2015. http://www.businessinsider.com/gaming-will-fuel-the-virtual-reality-market-2015-5.\
\'93International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression.\'94 2012. 2012. http://www.nime.org/.\
Jones, Edward E. n.d. \'93Harvard University Memorial Church Orfeo Ed Euridice Program Notes.\'94 www.memorialchurch.harvard.edu.\
jonesRG, ShortBananaMan, and fightwithdogma. 2015. \'93RiftintotheMind.\'94 Reddit. 2015. https://www.reddit.com/r/RiftintotheMind/.\
J\'f8rgensen, Kristine. 2008. \'93Audio and Gameplay: An Analysis of PvP Battlegrounds in World of Warcraft.\'94 Game Studies 8 (2): 1\'9619.\
Jung, Carl G., M.-L. von Franz, Joseph L. Henderson, Jolande Jacobi, and Aniela Jaff\'e9. 1968. Man and His Symbols. Edited by Carl G. Jung, M.-L. von Franz, and John Freeman. Dell Publishing.\
Jung, Carl G., and R.F.C Hull. 1981. The Archetypes and the Collective Unconscious. Princeton University Press.\
Ketterer, David. 1992. Canadian Science Fiction and Fantasy. Indiana University Press.\
Kim-Boyle, David. 2014. \'93Visual Design of Real-Time Screen Scores.\'94 Organised Sound 19 (03): 286\'9694. https://doi.org/10.1017/S1355771814000272.\
Kl\'fcver, Heinrich. 1942. \'93Mechanisms of Hallucinations.\'94 In Studies in Personality, edited by Terman and Merrill, 175\'96207. New York: Mc-Graw-Hill. https://doi.org/10.1176/ajp.156.5.805b.\

\f1 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Kobayashi, Jun. 2001. Rez. Sega.\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Krug, Steve. 2000. Don\'92t Make Me Think! Berkeley: New Riders Publishing.\cf0 \
Kurzweil, Ray. 2005. The Singularity Is Near. London: Penguin Books Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1057/9781137349088_26.\
Lanier, Jaron. 2010. You Are Not a Gadget: A Manifesto. New York City: Alfred A Knoff.\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 \'97\'97\'97. 2017. Dawn of the New Everything: Encounters with Reality and Virtual Reality. Henry Holt. New York City.\
Leary, Timothy. 1994. Chaos and Cyberculture. Berkeley: Ronin Publishing, Inc.\
L\'e9vi-Strauss, Claude. 1955. \'93The Structural Study of Myth.\'94 The Journal of American Folklore 68 (270): 428\'9644. https://doi.org/10.1111/an.1965.6.9.3.2.\
\'97\'97\'97. 1969. The Raw and the Cooked. New York City: Harper & Row.\

\f1 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Livingston, Christopher. 2017. \'93Fallout 4 High Resolution Texture Pack Comparison Screenshots.\'94 PC Gamer. 2017. http://www.pcgamer.com/fallout-4-high-resolution-texture-pack-comparison-screenshots/.\
McKenna, Terence. 1993. Food of the Gods: The Search for the Original Tree of Knowledge A Radical History of Plants, Drugs, and Human Evolution. Bantam Books. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9781107415324.004.\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\sb120\partightenfactor0
\cf2 McCluhan, M. (2011). The Medium is the Message. In 
\f2\i Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man
\f0\i0  (Vol. 1964).\cf0 \
Meehan, Michael, Sharif Razzaque, Mary C. Whitton, and Frederick P. Brooks. 2003. \'93Effect of Latency on Presence in Stressful Virtual Environments.\'94 Proceedings - IEEE Virtual Reality 2003\'96Janua: 141\'9648. https://doi.org/10.1109/VR.2003.1191132.\
\pard\tx1440\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\sb120\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Montero, Carlos. 2012. Black Mesa. USA. https://www.blackmesasource.com/.\
Monteverdi, Claudio. 1607. L\'92Orfeo, Favola in Mvsica. Venice: Ricciardo Amadino.\
Murmane, Kevin. 2017. \'93The University Of Utah Offers Scholarships To Play Varsity Esports [Updated].\'94 Forbes. 2017. https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinmurnane/2017/04/06/the-university-of-utah-offers-scholarships-to-play-varsity-esports/#29b55fa6179c.\
Musick, Michael. 2014. \'93Examining the Analysis of Dynamical Sonic Ecosystems: In Light of a Criterion for Evaluating Theories.\'94 ICMC, no. September: 154\'9661. http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.bbp2372.2014.026.\
Niiya, Yu. 2016. \'93Does a Favor Request Increase Liking Toward the Requester?\'94 Journal of Social Psychology 156 (2): 211\'9621. https://doi.org/10.1080/00224545.2015.1095706.\
\'93NIME Workshop on Audio-First VR.\'94 n.d. Accessed May 8, 2018. https://audio1stvr.github.io/.\
Novak, Marcos. 1996. \'93Transmitting Architecture\uc0\u8239 : The Transphysical City Zero\u8239 : Transmitting Architecture.\'94 Time 0 (July 1995): 1\'9610.\
Pinker, Steven. 2002. The Blank Slate. New York City: Penguin Books Ltd.\
Potter, Mary C., Brad Wyble, Carl Erick Hagmann, and Emily S. McCourt. 2014. \'93Detecting Meaning in RSVP at 13 Ms per Picture.\'94 Attention, Perception, and Psychophysics 76 (2): 270\'9679. https://doi.org/10.3758/s13414-013-0605-z.\
Research, Grand View. 2017. \'93Virtual Reality (VR) In Gaming Market Size Worth $45.09 Billion By 2025.\'94 2017. http://www.grandviewresearch.com/press-release/global-virtual-reality-in-gaming-market.\
R\'f3heim, G\'e9za. 1943. The Origin and Function of Culture. New York: Nervous and Mental Disease Monographs.\
Rushkoff, Douglas. 1994. Cyberia: Life in the Trenches of Hyperspace. London: Flamingo.\
Scacchi, Walt. 2011. \'93Modding as an Open Source Approach to Extending Computer Game Systems.\'94 International Journal of Open Source Software & Processes 3 (3): 36\'9647. https://doi.org/10.4018/jossp.2011070103.\
Serafin, Stefania, Cumhur Erkut, Juraj Kojs, Niels C Nilsson, and Rolf Nordahl. 2016. \'93Virtual Reality Musical Instruments: State of the Art, Design Principles, and Future Directions.\'94 Computer Music Journal 40 (3): 22\'9640.\
Shaver-Gleason, Linda. 2017. \'93Beethoven\'92s Deafness and the Myth of the Isolated Artist.\'94 The Avid Listener. 2017. http://www.theavidlistener.com/2017/01/beethovens-deafness-and-the-myth-of-the-isolated-artist.html.\
Simmons, Josh C. 2017. \'93Video Games as New Model for the Performing Arts.\'94 https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B00Wyxd61nG1NWdlWnVqdXo4UG8/view?usp=sharing.\
Singletary, Charles. 2017. \'93The Crowdfunded Hardlight VR Suit Lets You Feel Your Virtual Experience.\'94 Upload VR. 2017. https://uploadvr.com/crowdfunded-hardlight-vr-suit-lets-you-feel-virtual-experience/.\
Stockhausen, Karlheinz. 1992. Nr. 7: Klavierstuck XI. London: Universal Edition.\
Strassmann, Rick. 2001. DMT: The Spirit Module. Rochester, Vermont: Park Street Press.\
Takahashi, Keijiro. 2014. \'93Reaktion.\'94 2014. https://github.com/keijiro/Reaktion.\
Tarantino, Todd. 2002. \'93ORFEO: Act 3.\'94 2002. http://www.toddtarantino.com/hum/orfeoact3.html.\
TechRadar. 2017. \'93Oculus Co-Founder Reveals the Future of VR at CES 2017.\'94 YouTube. 2017. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9hek393AEdY.\
thekinolibrary. 2017. \'931990s Jaron Lanier Presents VPL Virtual Reality Glove.\'94 YouTube. 2017. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E1q9zDSAQEw.\
Thompson, Jamie. 2011. \'93Djent, the Metal Geek\'92s Microgenre.\'94 The Guardian. 2011. https://www.theguardian.com/music/2011/mar/03/djent-metal-geeks.\
Unity. 2010. \'93Unity Asset Store.\'94 2010. https://www.assetstore.unity3d.com/en/.\
Wagner, Richard. 1849. The Art-Work of the Future. Edited by William Ashton Ellis.\
\'97\'97\'97. 1892. \'93Richard Wagner\'92s Prose Works Vol. I. The Art-Work of the Future.\'94 In Richard Wagner\'92s Prose Works Vol. I. The Art-Work of the Future, 422. London: Kegan Paul, Trench, Tr\'fcbner & Co.. Ltd. http://javanese.imslp.info/files/imglnks/usimg/6/6a/IMSLP94177-PMLP194194-RWagner_Prose_Works_Vol1.pdf.\
Wang, Ge. 2014. \'93Principles of Visual Design for Computer Music.\'94 In A. Georgaki and G. Kouroupetroglou (Eds.), Proceedings ICMC|SMC|2014, 14-20 September 2014, Athens, Greece, 391\'9696. Athens. http://www.smc-conference.org/smc-icmc-2014/papers/images/VOL_1/0391.pdf.\
\'97\'97\'97. 2016. \'93Some Principles of Visual Design for Computer Music.\'94 Leonardo Music Journal 26 (26): 14\'9619. https://doi.org/10.1162/LMJ_a_00960.\
Weinel, Jonathan. 2010. \'93Quake Delirium: Remixing Psychedelic Videogames.\'94 Sonic Ideas 3 (2): 22\'9629.\
Wighton, Kate. 2016. \'93The Brain on LSD Revealed: First Scans Show How the Drug Affects the Brain.\'94 Imperial News. 2016. https://www.imperial.ac.uk/news/171699/the-brain-lsd-revealed-first-scans/.\
Williams, Paul, Keith V. Nesbitt, Ami Eidels, and David Elliott. 2011. \'93Balancing Risk and Reward to Develop an Optimal Hot-Hand Game.\'94 Game Studies 11 (1): 1\'9616.\
Witts, Dick. 1995. \'93Karlheinz Stockhausen - Advice To Clever Children.\'94 The Wire. 1995. http://www.stockhausen.org/ksadvice.html.\
Zorn, John. 1984. \'93Cobra.\'94 1984. https://hermes.neocities.org/zorn-cobra-score.pdf.\
\
}