{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 After highlighting areas of the multidisciplinary background that has been derived from the various aforementioned related disciplines, i.e. dreams, VR, and psychedelic drugs, connections can be drawn from these disciplines to the common thread of this work, music. In order to clearly establish these links, I will remind the reader of the conclusions reached in the previous sections:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}VR is similar to lucid dreaming. Both \'93mediums\'94 deal in the world of symbolic meaning. \
{\listtext	2.	}VR and lucid dreaming differ in the sense that lucid dreams must be experienced solitarily.\
{\listtext	3.	}Psychedelic drugs allow the user to explore a metaphorical underworld of consciousness that is not organized such as typical daily waking consciousness is.\
{\listtext	4.	}Traditionally, psychedelic drugs have been administered by some kind of shaman that guides the user\'92s trip.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I will sequentially address each of these points and their relationship to music. I do this with the intent of furthering Pierre Schaeffer\'92s suggestion that \'93\'85music is more than music, that it is not a run of the mill, utilitarian or aesthetic object, but a spiritual undertaking...\'94 (Chion 1983, 3\'964).\
VR is similar to lucid dreaming. Both \'93mediums\'94 deal in the world of symbolic meaning. The most obvious research to examine in order to establish a connection between music and other symbolic mediums is that of Michael Chion\'92s 
\f1\i Guide to Sound {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://66514E3F-4E2A-48D2-8BD1-427A46C91189"}}{\fldrslt Objects
\f0\i0 .}}
\f0\i0   While the research presented by Chion is correct in suggesting that it can be advantageous to look past typical conventions of notated music when listening to any analyzing acousmatic music, the research is in many ways, a product of its times. Schaeffer\'92s Trait\'e9 des objets musicaux was written in 1966, less than a decade after Milton Babbitt wrote his scathing article \'93Who Cares if You Listen?\'94 Babbitt offers a glimpse into the world of the composer at this time:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 I do not wish to appear to obscure the obvious differences between musical composition and scholarly research, although it can be contended that these differences are no more fundamental than the differences among the various fields of study. I do question whether these differences, by their nature, justify the denial to music's development of assistance granted these other fields. Immediate "practical" applicability (which may be said to have its musical analogue in "immediate extensibility of a compositional technique") is certainly not a necessary condition for the support of scientific research. And if it be contended that such research is so supported because in the past it has yielded eventual applications, one can counter with, for example, the music of Anton Webern, which during the composer's lifetime was regarded (to the very limited extent that it was regarded at all) as the ultimate in hermetic, specialized, and idiosyncratic composition; today, some dozen years after the composer's death, his complete works have been recorded by a major record company, primarily- I suspect- as a result of the enormous influence this music has had on the postwar, nonpopular, musical world. I doubt that scientific research is any more secure against predictions of ultimate significance than is musical composition. (Babbitt 1958)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 In this excerpt, despite professing not to, Babbitt attempts to conflate musical research with scientific research. Scientific research attempts to eschew any subjectivity, the research is focused on objective results based on hard numbers. Babbitt\'92s music certainly reflects this approach, and Schaeffer\'92s reasoning goes beyond it but is still marred by the predominance of the rigidly scientific thinking present at the time. Schaeffer\'92s research while useful, by its language opposes the notion of story. Schaeffer\'92s sonic unit, the \'93sound object\'94 is by its title specifically not a subject. Stories can be written about objects, but humans will not identify with them. Humans identify with stories about subjects, i.e. characters that they can potentially self-insert themselves into. In addition to this distinction, despite Schaeffer\'92s analysis of objects as a fundamental unit of listening, the fact that these objects are man-made is not sufficiently explored. Of course, it is very useful to have a syntax and theory surrounding acousmatic objects, but the composer must bear in mind that these symbols were unwittingly co-created by the nature of the listeners of the music. \
These sound objects exist because we perceive them. Jung explains the history of this co-creation phenomenon, \'93The fact is that in former times men did not reflect upon their symbols; they lived them and were unconsciously animated by their meaning.\'94 (Jung et al. 1968, 69) It has long been the task of the musical scholar to reflect upon these symbols in a technical sense, and Schaeffer\'92s work fits neatly into this historical lineage, however as musicians branch out into a terrain of compositional tools composed of technologies that sometimes arise and disappear in the blink of an eye, the need for a more symbolic, and human-centric understanding is necessary. Such postmodal understanding of human-relative symbols can be observed in my work for fixed audio and 3D animation, 
\f1\i bitPushIntersection
\f0\i0 .}