{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 VR may be the most centrally situated artistic discipline (Lanier 2017, 54), but it shares a special bond with many fields, in this document I will explore the connections with dreams, drugs, and science fiction. As has been already established in the Design Principles section, many figures from each of these disciplines were involved in research spanning two or more of these topics: Douglas Rushkoff (drugs, science fiction), William S. Burroughs (dreams, drugs, science fiction), and Dr. Robert Anton Wilson (dreams, drugs, science fiction), just to name a few. Delving further into the most notable research in each of these fields begins to illuminate the hidden connections between the seemingly disparate disciplines. These obscured connections are quite clear once established and provide a path towards thinking about what is at the core of postmodal design. As with much research in this area however, the easiest inroad towards this understanding is through providing examples. \
Jaron Lanier, as a figure whose research spanned multiple disciplines serves as a good starting point. Lanier\'92s own writing suggests that the study of dreams is a useful influence on VR design:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 Twentieth VR Definition: Like lucid dreaming, except that (a) more than one person can take on roles in the same experience, (b) the quality is not as good, and (c) you have to work to program VR if you want to be in control, which you should want. Dreams, meanwhile, are often best if you don\'92t seek to control them. Even Stephen La Berge seeks to be nonlucid in most of his dreams since it is in untethered dreams that the brain surprises and renews itself. (Lanier 2017, 149)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 In order to parse out the utility of dreams in VR design, Lanier\'92s comparison must be dissected, and reconstructed through the lens of the artist. Points (a) and (b) are reasonable, but the artist will likely disagree with part of point (c). There is no \'93should\'94 in art. Expectations of the audience can be constructed, but an audience member brings with them the totality of their experience when viewing a work of art. There are of course homogenizing factors between audience members (a concept that will be examined in great detail later), however Lanier does not make a strong case for why someone \'93should\'94 want to control the VR experience. The utility of this statement is clear when considering the development goals of a team working on a AAA title VR video {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://29C2AD5F-64C1-4E60-B20A-C435C6661603"}}{\fldrslt game.}} A video game such as this, is intended for mass markets, not intended to subvert any expectations, and supposed to fit most existing paradigms of VR use. Lanier was primarily working outside of these frameworks, thus his \'93should\'94 remains confusingly motivated.\
Control, understood in this excerpt to mean some kind of user-driven way of shaping the VR simulation, as opposed to passively watching a 360-degree video, is an erroneous construction. Existing research has clearly demonstrated that awareness is dynamic and not static (Chabris and Simons 2011, 18). This dynamic awareness can even be demonstrated through formats with a lower data-resolution than 360-degree VR video, such as traditional 2D video. \'93Your moment-to-moment expectations, more than the visual distinctiveness of the object, determine what you see\'97and what you miss.\'94 (Chabris and Simons 2011, 18). The users\'92 perceptions are secondary to a goal. This influence of expectations over visual perception suggest that the locus of control is distributed between choosing what one intends to be aware of, and one\'92s own physical, \'93control\'94 actions. Thus, some degree of user control is still present even if the VR simulation is not designed to accommodate for it. Lanier\'92s account of La Berge\'92s desire to remain nonlucid in most of his dreams seeks to draw clear lines between control and non-control (Lanier 2017, 148\'9649). Upon waking, if some part of a dream is remembered, and another part is forgotten, there is then perhaps some control on the part of the dreamer as to how deeply to probe their memory for the \'93missing pieces\'94 of the dream. These opposing states suggest that there is an ambiguity instead of a clear demarcation between what we perceive as control and non-control as it relates to a visual stimulus. \
We have clearly established then, that with some modification to Lanier\'92s statement, there is a link between dreams and VR. A modified definition of the link between dreams and VR might be posed as a modification of Lanier\'92s own statement on the matter (Lanier 2017, 149) as such (my own refactoring of Lanier\'92s quote): \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 VR is like lucid dreaming except that it is possible to share the experience with multiple participants, as opposed to the solitary experience had in lucid dreams. Currently, VR technology cannot provide the same data resolution provided by the dream-world but extrapolating into the future the historical trajectory of technological advances, it is reasonable to assume that the data resolution of VR will be on par with the dream-world in the near future. The degree of control that the artist-developer wishes to give to the user is within their discretion and will ideally aid in portraying the modus operandi of the work of art. Simple actions such as awareness focal points, removing the physical headset, and sense-making of the experience will always be within the user\'92s locus of control. 
\f1\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}