{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 At a very early conceptual stage of this work, the work of media theorist Marshall McLuhan seemed as though it would provide a strong basis for my own research. As the topic of my work evolved, McLuhan became a distant memory, but this forgetting happened at my own peril. McLuhan\'92s assertion that the medium communicates more than the message it contains (McLuhan 2011) seems to increase exponentially for each medium added. This is the most significant conclusion derived from my work.\
Among users that experienced various iterations of my VR and audio work over the span of my research, the most repeated remarks seldom involved mention of the audio or visual elements in their atomic form. A vocal minority of users offered significant commentary on the specific audio elements of the work. All members of this minority had advanced degrees in a music or sound-related discipline. This division brings up an interesting artistic and HCI consideration that has been recurrent in my work to which there is no \'93correct\'94 answer, only the one that the artist chooses. At an early stage of development I constructed a design persona in my mind for the purpose of being able to clearly articulate development goals and to shape creative decisions. My persona, or \'93ideal user\'94 would be an individual that enjoys listening to electronic music genres, maybe even more experimental ones, but does not have significant formal training in music. This persona ensured that targets and goals did not shift too dramatically during development, or if they did it was a reasoned and purposeful shift. \
Most of the work\'92s target users, or those that more closely resembled my persona remarked both in usability testing sessions and demonstrations more often on the VR experience in itself, performance space, and interactivity than on the component audio and visual elements. This feedback echoes McLuhan\'92s assertion that the medium conveys more information than the message. Through receiving this feedback from user testing at multiple stages of development, I thought more broadly about how exhibitions of the work could be framed to have a more significant impact on users. \
User experience experts suggest conducting usability testing in a nondescript environment to avoid contaminating user experience results (Krug 2000, 150). My lab testing setup was not in a nondescript office room, it was in a recording studio, an environment that musicians such as myself feel so at home in that the data barely registers as notable or exceptional. Through the eyes of the unitiated however, this space undoubtedly set up some kind of framing for non-musician users. I attempted to exploit this technique in the presentation of my first showcase by creating a countercultural, medium-rich space to begin to put users into an altered state of mind. The inclusion of this many mediums (projection visuals, VR, dynamic lighting, improvised music, optional smartphone VR, no set or persistent seating arrangments) was so pervasive that few users spoke of the content, and primarily noticed the overwhelming nature of technologies present. \
In the second showcase-iteration of my work in the Spring of 2019, I gave thoughtful consideration to which mediums would be included, and to how they would be framed by a physical space. I decided to have a dim blue lighting set in the xMPL black box theater. The lights would be dimmed as soon as the doors were open. This served to create a distinct and immediate separation between the world outside of the performance space, and inside of it. It was my hope that this gradual easing into an altered state of awareness would lessen the shock of going from the real world into the music-VR world. \
The audience seating for participants not currently wearing the VR headset was put mere feet from a two-story tall projection screen that showed the inside of the headset. This proximity somewhat mirrored the full visual field one sees when wearing a VR headset, also preparing the participants for a gradual transition into the VR space. \
These medium-specific {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1346FD5E-3E68-4D70-B3FB-4F730959DB46"}}{\fldrslt considerations}} helped to properly frame the experience in a manner that utilized medium to facilitate a surreal environment, but was not so pervasive as to completely override the message of the performance, i.e. the low-level components of the work. I believe this balance between thoughtfully considered mediums and low-level content was significantly improved from the showcase conducted in the previous year. Further user testing is essential to continue to explore this topic.\
}