{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Apart from the three design principles already laid out, a more overarching principle emerged during the development process. The main driving purpose of 
\f1\i Abstruse 
\f0\i0 was to test the theories presented in my research. Many pieces of tangential knowledge were acquired along the writing and production process, but the core theory that 
\f1\i Abstruse
\f0\i0  would serve to illustrate was that of postmodality. As an artist, this divide between aesthetically true artwork, and technological exercise presented me with a fundamental decision to make in the production of 
\f1\i Abstruse
\f0\i0  - would the piece be an authentic realization of my artistic sensibilities, or a technological manifestation of the theories put forth in my research. There was grey area to be found in this divide, but I chose to emphasize the latter. \

\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0  was an artistic work. In my artistic work, I prefer to incorporate elements of fringe-culture. I enjoy creating a sense of ambiguity for the audience. In 
\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0  I was able to create false expectations, and suprise the audience by breaking them. While 
\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0  was a very artistically fulfilling work for me, it did not do a good job of illustrating my dissertation research.\
It is for these reasons that I chose to present 
\f1\i Abstruse
\f0\i0  in a session-format instead of a performance. Participants were able to volunteer to use the headset, and there was open communication between myself and the participants between improvisations, which was very unlike the rigid fourth-wall maintained in 
\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0 . In order to very clearly illustrate the connection between the downsized number of technolgies being used, I briefly talked the participants through the setup before beginning, as opposed to \'93just starting\'94 as I did in 
\f1\i MKUltra.
\f0\i0  \
Ultimately these considerations made 
\f1\i Abstruse
\f0\i0  less artistically fulfulling, but a better and clearer representation of the core concepts laid out in my previous research. In future iterations of this performance, I would attempt to reintegrate more artistic elements, and some amibguity back into the setup. Bringing the functional and creative elements into a more perfect balance would make the work fulfilling to me as creator, and audience as more than simply a technical exercise. }