{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Before expaning into the more encompassing implications of this work, one must examine the connections between the smallest atomic elements used in my music and VR combinations. Despite only two mediums being present, i.e. music and VR, a third element, user interaction must also be considered as an invisible third member of this atomic-resolution assemblage. Due primarily to the technical overhead necessary to create content in VR, it was clear that the VR environment should dictate initial considerations in the music and in the user interaction. \
As laid out in the Showcase II details, one of the main integrations was the generative technique for visual and audio material. In the VR domain, particle physics dominated the visual landscape in most of the scenes. To mirror this in the audio domain, granualar synthesis was used to create a shifting turbulent texture similar to those created by the particle physics. In addition to this generation method the visuals suggested some kind of psychedelic, otherworldly, outer space scene. In order to mimic this in the audio, sound material from psychedelic music was used as the granulation input. \
The key conclusions of my research in this area were that the audio and visual components must, to the best of the artist\'92s technical ability, be developed ideally in tandem, or at least conceptually in tandem. For my own work on this project, this meant using analogous technologies in each medium to create one layer of homogeneity, and then taking advantage of stylistic analogues to establish another layer of cohesion. The end result is a work that attempts to transcend medium, instead of being merely a soundtracked visual, or animated electronic music. Of course achievements in this domain sit on a spectrum and are seldom fully on one end or the other, but what I established with 
\f1\i Abstruse
\f0\i0  was a step towards full medium-liberation.\
}