{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Before branching out it is advantageous to look for historical manifestations of postmodal art. A notable early example of historical postmodal art is the operatic work of Ricard Wagner.\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 Let us therefore first agree as to whom we must consider the creator of the Art-work of the Future; so that we may argue back from him to the life-conditions which alone can permit his art-work and himself to take their rise.\
Who, then, will be the Artist of the Future?\
Without a doubt, the Poet.\
But who will be the Poet?\
Indisputably the Performer\
Yet who, again, will be the Performer?\
Necessarily the Fellowship of all the Artists. (Wagner 1892, 81)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 \
Wagner\'92s early experiential research and philosophy laid early groundwork for the development of postmodal art. His integration of various mediums and position as auteur of the creative process put his ideas and artistry at the center of development in all mediums to be employed during his productions. Due to the massive resources necessary to put on these kinds of productions it is not surprising that Wagner\'92s new paradigm did not catch on outside of his own coterie at that time. The near impossibility of constructing such a media-diverse work at that point in history is undoubtedly one of the reasons his work is still considered so outstanding by scholars. At present day, media creation tools have become more accessible to artists using technology to such a sufficient level that Wagner\'92s concept of gesamtkuntswerk will finally begin to catch on in the mainstream of artistic creation.\
The Wagner excerpt above sets clear the path of development for postmodal art, as well as one of its central issues in development. Wagner specifies that the poet will be the artist of the future. I have chosen to interpret poet to mean a tone poet, i.e. a composer that tells a story through music. The central challenge that this highlights is how to keep music as the central generating force of postmodal art.}