{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Video games are projected to fuel development on the VR platform in the coming years (Intelligence 2015; Research 2017; Gaudiosi 2016). Creators can act in one of two ways in response to this information: rejection, or acceptance. Ignorance of this fact by computer music scholars interested in branching out into this platform risks creation of uninformed works. Acceptance of this trend opens a massive stream of information that computer musicians can implement in their own works. Concepts presented by commercial video games such as 3D interface design, game mechanics, gameplay frameworks, et al. evolve through a kind of capitalistic Darwinism. If a game is to be successful and make money in the industry, it must effectively interface with the end user. Due to this financial incentive, games that successfully interact with the user typically have idiomatic game play mechanics and interface design. What might the computer music composer, interested in creating for VR, learn if they experienced from playing \'96 not only from reading \'96 some of these notable video games? Might they then be able to take information about the success of 
\f1\i Rez
\f0\i0 's (Kobayashi 2001) audiovisual integration, and the failure of Alien Isolation's (Hope 2014) amplitude tracking mechanic (FredEd919 2014) and use this to create a more nuanced VR experience?}