{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The hagazussa, the fence-sitter, between the wilderness and the village, \'93was a being who participated in both worlds\'94 (McKenna 1993, 117). Most mythological canons have liminal deities such as hagazussa, including liminal deities separating order (village) from chaos (wilderness). Osiris was the liminal deity of Egyptian mythology. Osiris presided over the Underworld, a duty which required him to judge the dead, thus making the border between order and chaos selectively permeable instead of open. Osiris was also the flood god, another liminal myth, since floods create chaos for those caught in their path. In Haitian Vodou, one finds Legba occupying this role. Legba is the intermediary between the spirit world, and the living. He judges whether or not to allow the living to speak with those residing in the spirit world. \
The broader symbolic implications of this concept found in some form in most major mythological traditions form the underlying story framework laid out by McKenna in his dissection of the use of psychedelic drugs. What all of these examples are pointing towards are a mytheme, specifically the katabasis and anabasis mythemes. Claude L\'e9vi-Strauss originally explained this concept with the term gross constituent units, but later used the term mytheme:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 These constituent units presuppose the constituent units present in language when analyzed on other levels, namely, phonemes, morphemes, and semantemes, but they, nevertheless, differ from the latter in the same way as they themselves differ from morphemes, and these from phonemes; they belong to a higher order, a more complex one. For this reason, we will call them gross constituent units. (L\'e9vi-Strauss 1955, 431)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 The mythemes of katabasis \'97 call to adventure, descent into the underworld, and anabasis \'97 rescue, return, resurrection, can, just like parts of speech, or chords in a piece of music, be arranged in any way the creator wishes. Just as in speech and music, there are ways to arrange these pieces that are more relatable, and less relatable to the human experience. It is for this reason that many surviving myths follow a progression of katabasis, and then anabasis. A katabasis without anabasis is merely a death. So many core myths across so many traditions adhere to this progression of elements that Joseph Campbell\'92s research suggests that is may be the only myth, dubbing this progression of elements the monomyth (Campbell 2008, 1, 210). \
At this time, I wish to draw the reader\'92s attention to the logically following conclusions: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Mythemes are the \'93gross constituent units\'94 of myth. \
{\listtext	2.	}Katabasis and anabasis combined in sequential order create the monomyth.\
{\listtext	3.	}This progression of descent from order into chaos, and ascent back into order imply the presence of some kind of gatekeeper. This gatekeeper is present at the protagonist\'92s final departure from order.\
{\listtext	4.	}The gatekeeper often required a fee for passage. \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Points 1 and 2 have already been established, but 3 and 4 necessitate more explanation. In Ancient Greece, Charon occupied the role of liminal god. Charon was the ferryman of the Underworld. Charon required a fee for passage. Many Ancient Greeks would be buried with Charon\'92s {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C50A3DBE-DBFB-49B1-9E9D-626D99483C13"}}{\fldrslt obol,}} i.e. a coin placed in the deceased\'92s mouth as an offering for Charon to allow their safe passage to the underworld. \
Since establishing these four points, they must now be clearly related to music and to psychedelic drugs. The keen musical reader will notice Charon\'92s prevalence as a character in the
\f2\i  one of the most adapted myths by composers
\f0\i0 , the myth of Orpheus\'92s descent into the Underworld. A full retelling of the myth exceeds the limitations of this writing. Necessarily then, much of the myth must be {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://FBA43C89-34E3-4546-B810-8DAD42FA85F7"}}{\fldrslt omitted.}} Some key points that the reader should be familiar with before a more in-depth discussion of the musical adaptations of the myth are presented are as follows:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Orpheus is a musician. \
{\listtext	2.	}Orpheus has a wife, Eurydice.\
{\listtext	3.	}Eurydice is fatally bitten by a snake at her {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://97E29D7C-459C-472E-9AEA-565E8DD41BD7"}}{\fldrslt wedding.}}\
{\listtext	4.	}Orpheus is advised by nymphs and gods to go to the Underworld to retrieve Eurydice.\
{\listtext	5.	}Orpheus goes to the Underworld.\
{\listtext	6.	}Once reaching the Styx, i.e. the liminal boundary between the world of the living and the Underworld, he is confronted by Charon, the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://DB3BD2EA-0D6C-496A-AA3D-3914168077FA"}}{\fldrslt gatekeeper.}} \
{\listtext	7.	}Charon initially won\'92t allow Orpheus passage, so he plays a song on his lyre that somehow convinces Charon to let him pass, or otherwise disarms him in some way.\
{\listtext	8.	}Orpheus finds Eurydice and is permitted to take her back to the world of the living on the condition that he walks in front of her and does not look at her until they are out of the Underworld.\
{\listtext	9.	}Just before leaving the Underworld, Eurydice keeps begging him to look at her, and he submits.\
{\listtext	10.	}Once Orpheus looks at Eurydice she vanishes, ostensibly back into the depths of the Underworld, this time never to return to the world of the living. \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Through browsing the main points of this myth, one can instantly understand how the story is ripe for musical adaptation. Orpheus embodies the role of the medicine man. Through the modern lens of psychology, Orpheus\'92s distress over his wife\'92s tragic death, could be understood as a temporary psychosis.  \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 In every primitive tribe we find the medicine man in the center of society and it is easy to show that the medicine man is either a neurotic or psychotic or at least that his art is based on the same mechanisms as a neurosis or psychosis. (R\'f3heim 1943, 38\'9639)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 One could speculate that the reason this myth is so widely adapted by composers, is because Orpheus\'92s plight is so relatable to everyone. This could be a literal relatability in the case of a woman whose husband has passed, or a more symbolic relation, in the case of someone who has lost a treasured, one-of-a-kind, possession. \
Although the retelling of this myth is modified slightly from telling to telling, the main points outlined previously are present. In order to establish this, the liminal deity section of three musical adaptations will be examined; L\'92Orfeo by Claudio Monteverdi, Orfeo ed Euridice by Christoph Willibaud Gluck, and, the oldest of the three, Euridice by Jacopo Peri.\
In librettist Allessandro Striggio\'92s telling of the myth, under the direction of Monteverdi, Charon will not permit Orpheus to pass into the underworld. The following declaration occurs in Act 3.\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f3\b\fs20 [Original]
\f0\b0 \
\
CARONTE\
\

\f2\i O tu ch'innanzi morte a queste rive\
temerato ten' vieni, arresta i passi.\
Solcar quest'onde ad uom mortal non dassi,\
ne puo co' morti albergo aver chi vive.\
\
Che? Vuoi forse, nemico al mio signore,\
Cerbero trar de le tartaree porte?\
O rapir brami sua cara consorte\
d'impudico desire acceso il core?\
\
Pon freno al foll'ardir, ch'entr'al mio legno\
non accorro piu mai corporea salma,\
s\'ec de gli antichi oltaggi ancora en l'alma\
serbo acerba memoria e giusto sdegno.
\f0\i0 \
(Monteverdi 1607, 59\'9660)\

\f3\b [Translation]\

\f0\b0 \
CHARON\
\

\f2\i Ho, you who approach these shores\
before your death, come no further;\
no mortal man may venture on this flood,\
nor may the living dwell among the dead.\
\
What? Would you, an enemy of my Lord, maybe,\
snatch Cerebus from the gates of Tartarus?\
Or do you long to abduct his beloved consort,\
your heart aflame with lewd desires?\
\
Restrain your rash heroics, for in my boat\
I shall never receive a living body,\
since bitter memories and just resentment\
of those old affronts still seethe within me.
\f0\i0 \
(Tarantino 2002)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Orpheus attempts to soften Charon\'92s resolve by playing him a song but is unsuccessful.\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f3\b\fs20 [Original]
\f0\b0 \
\
CARONTE\

\f2\i \
Ben sollecita alquanto\
dilettandomi il core,\
sconsolato cantore,\
il tuo pianto e 'l tuo canto.\
Ma lunge, ah, lunge sia da questo petto\
pieta, di mio valor non degno affetto.
\f0\i0 \
(Monteverdi 1607, 65\'9666)\

\f3\b [Translation]\

\f0\b0 \
CHARON\
\

\f2\i I find great pleasure,\
heartfelt delight,\
disconsolate Singer,\
in your tearful appeal and song.\
But far, far be compassion from my breast,\
a sentiment quite unworthy of my nature.\

\f0\i0 (Tarantino 2002)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Orpheus attempts to use music on Charon again, and instead of softening his resolve, he puts Charon to sleep, allowing him to pass unimpeded into the Underworld.\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f3\b\fs20 [Original]\

\f0\b0 \
ORFEO\
\

\f2\i Ei dorme, e la mia cetra,\
se pieta non impetra\
ne l'indurato core, almen il sonno\
fuggir al mio cantar gli occhi non ponno.\
Su dunque a che piu tardo?\
Tempo e ben d'approdar su l'altra sponda,\
s'alcun non e ch'il neghi,\
Vaglia l'ardir se foran vani i preghi.\
E vago fior del tempo\
l'occasion, ch'esser dee colta a tempo.\

\f0\i0 (Monteverdi 1607, 67\'9668)\

\f3\b [Translation]
\f0\b0 \
\
ORPHEUS\
\

\f2\i He sleeps, and though my lyre\
could not inspire compassion\
in his hardened heart, at least his eyes\
cannot resist my song.\
Come then, why do I still tarry?\
It is high time I reached the farther shore,\
since my way is now unopposed;\
courage will prevail where prayers did not,\
and opportunity, sweet flower of time,\
must be taken while there is yet time.
\f0\i0 \
(Tarantino 2002)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Librettist Ranieri de' Calzabigi\'92s telling of the myth in Orfeo ed Euridice, under Gluck\'92s direction, takes a slightly different interpretation but still features a liminal deity of sorts as a gatekeeper. In Gluck\'92s version, Orpheus encounters the Furies who will not permit him to pass into the Underworld. Through a \'93lute \'94 accompanied aria, the Furies remit and allow Orpheus passage.\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f3\b\fs20 [Original]
\f0\b0 \
\
ORFEO\

\f2\i Men tiranne, ah! voi sareste\
Al mio pianto, al mio lamento,\
Se provaste un sol momento\
Cosa sia languir d\'92amor.
\f0\i0 \
\
CORO\

\f2\i Ah quale incognito\
Affetto flebile,\
Dolce a sospendere\
Vien l\'92implacabile\
Nostro furor?\
Le porte stridano\
Su i neri cardini\
E il passo lascino\
Sicuro e libero\
Al vincitor.
\f0\i0 \
(Gluck 1914, 67\'9671)\

\f3\b [Translation]
\f0\b0 \
\
ORPHEUS\

\f2\i Ah! You would be less harsh\
to my weeping and lamenting\
if for but a moment you could know\
what it is to languish for love.
\f0\i0 \
\
CHORUS\

\f2\i Ah! What unknown\
feeling of pity\
sweetly comes\
to soften\
our implacable rage?\
Let the gates creak\
on their black hinges,\
and let the victor,\
safe and free,\
be allowed to pass.
\f0\i0 \
(Jones, n.d., 12)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Finally, one must examine the opera Euridice by Jacopo Peri. Euridice is of great significance in music history, as it is the oldest surviving opera. Research suggests that Euridice is the second oldest opera, second only to La Dafne, also by Peri. The liminal-god in Peri\'92s adaptation of the myth is Pluto. Orpheus is able to convince Pluto to allow Euridice to leave. In this telling of the myth, unlike that of Monteverdi\'92s and Gluck\'92s, Orpheus and Euridice successfully flee the Underworld to live happily ever after. This happy ending stands in stark contrast to other tellings of the myth. Through examining the performance conditions, one may gain insight as to the impetus for this different ending.\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 On the evening of 6 October 1600, as part of the week-long festivities celebrating the wedding by proxy of Maria de\'92 Medici and Henry IV of France, a new type of divertimento was staged inside the Pitti Palace in Florence. The performance was given in the apartments of Don Antonio de\'92 Medici (1576\'961621) for the enjoyment of the official wedding guests of Grand Duke Ferdinando I de\'92 Medici (1549\'961609), as well as a small number of Florentine courtiers. The piece was a poetic text set to music, staging a happy-ended version of the myth of Orpheus and Eurydice in stile recitativo. It bore the title Euridice and is often considered today to have constituted the first courtly opera. The performance also included an element that is usually absent from most modern operas: it was enhanced by ballets, sometimes involving the whole cast, as during the finale. Euridice\'92s libretto had been composed by the poet Ottavio Rinuccini (1562\'961621), while the music was a creation of Jacopo Peri (1561\'961633), both artists having worked in close collaboration with their patron, the Florentine merchant and music lover Jacopo Corsi (1561\'961602). Corsi had financed and organised most of the court performance and went so far as to play the harpsichord to support the efforts of his prot\'e9g\'e9s during the event. These men were not only tied by bonds of patronage and friendship; they were also tightly connected by their links to one of the major learned societies of late Renaissance Florence, the Accademia degli Alterati (1560\'96c. 1625), whose discussions on the pleasures of art and on the effects of dramatic spectacles may well have been the basis for many of the novelties of Euridice. (Blocker 2017, 77\'9678)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 It is clear that pressures were exerted on Peri\'92s production. The opera was during a wedding celebration. Adhering to the original ending of the myth, where Euridice is eternally stuck in the Underworld would likely not have been well received during such a celebration. There were also financial concerns. Blocker reports that Peri and Rinuccini worked closely with their patron. If the performance was not well received by the audience, it would make future commissions, and thus income, unlikely for the composer and librettist.\
What can be gleaned from this myth\'92s many manifestations in various operatic works, is the framework of a symbolic monomyth. I chose to use Orpheus and Euridice as an example here because of its clarity, pervasiveness, and historical eminence in the Western canon of music. The myth can be clearly understood in the framework of Campbell\'92s monomyth. At a low-resolution level of understanding, there is a call to action, katabasis into chaos during which a liminal deity is met and overcome, trials, and anabasis during which the protagonist ascends back towards order. The pervasiveness of this myth in the Western canon of music is indisputable, as it is one of the most used myths for operatic plots. Its historical eminence is also significant, as it is the second oldest opera, and the oldest surviving opera.\
The individual that takes a psychedelic drug embodies the role of the monomyth\'92s protagonist. The drug-taker embodies order in their everyday life, constituted by man-made concepts that are necessary for survival and social interaction, such as social roles, arbitrary measurement units, etc. The drug taker must confront a liminal deity. Historically in concepts with commonplace drug-taking rituals, this deity position has been occupied by the shaman or the medicine man. Mythologized, this concept turns into McKenna\'92s hagazussa. \
Some of the most definitive research on the shamanic process has been conducted by author Carlos Casteneda. While a student at UCLA in the late 1970s, Casteneda spent his summers with an old Yaqui Indian, named Don Juan, to learn about shamanism. Extrapolating McKenna\'92s concept of the hagazussa \'97 the deity that sits between the garden and the wilderness \'97 one can assume that this liminal deity has access to both worlds. In the same way that Legba can address the living and spirit worlds, or how Charon can ferry individuals between the world of the living and the Underworld, Don Juan sits between the world of order and the world of chaos. Don Juan reports to Casteneda, \'93\'85the smoke is my ally[\'85] I don\'92t need to smoke anymore. I can call him anytime, anyplace.\'94 (Castaneda 1977, 132). Throughout Casteneda\'92s work The Teachings of Don Juan, A Yaqui Way of Knowledge Don Juan guides Casteneda\'92s experiences with psychedelic drugs. Through this traditionally shamanic role, Don Juan occupies the mythological role of the liminal deity.\
At first glance, this may seem to be largely unrelated to the role of the composer, but it is essential. Joseph Campbell defines the role of shaman, liminal deity, or medicine man in the following way:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 The medicine men[\'85] are simply making both visible and public the systems of symbolic fantasy that are present in the psyche of every adult male in their society. (Campbell 2008, 84)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 It is consistently the musical works that relate to something true, innate, and universal about the human condition that listeners are attracted to. The boldest example of this phenomenon is the previously explained comparative analysis between musical recountings of the Orpheus and Euridice myth. There will undoubtedly be critics that accuse this argument of shoehorning music into a framework, of imposing this qualitatively analytical lens on pieces where it is not useful. I hope to allay such concerns by the technical information presented further on in this writing. I myself remained highly skeptical of the idea until I saw the breadth and utility of this framework. I saw this framework naturally fall into place over well-respected pieces by historical composers, those of modern contemporaries, and in my own works.}