{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 To successfully design a postmodal work with a musical basis, I first defined the scope of my project. I subsequently considered which mediums might feed into the work. The bounds of the work were defined as follows: the work would be for the VR head mounted display, the system would generate a virtual world based on real-time audio input, the audio input could come from a musician wearing the headset and concurrently playing a musical instrument, or the user could stream music from whatever source they desire, such as Spotify. \
After setting the bounds of scope for the work, I broke down the dependencies of this medium to see what kind of knowledge could be garnered from each, and how this knowledge could be transmuted into the other mediums involved in the development. I considered music's unique contributions to the medium. Music's primary contributions to virtual reality art were that musicians already had an existing skill set that could be leveraged in the design of the experience. Also, music\'92s own existence necessitates the existence of time, and the placement of events in this temporal framework. I considered the essential parts and precursor technologies that helped to form VR. Unsurprisingly, one of these fields was video games. Video games, and the field of game studies are two of the most idiomatic additions to the project\'92s foundation. This was a natural inclusion as the entire simulation would be constructed using a video game engine \'96 Unity. The genesis of VR as medium itself would also play an important role in my design process. The history of VR, albeit brief is rich in detail and includes figures from the establishment tech world as well as fringe figures. Jaron Lanier and Ray Kurzweil are two figures under the umbrella of this topic that are representative of larger sects in the foundational tech world. For the purposes of limiting my research, I decided to focus primarily on these two figures. While researching the early days of VR in Silicon Valley, I became interested in many of the fringe figures that were involved in its development. These fringe figures included science fiction writers and psychologists, among others. Science fiction writers active around this time functioned as journalists of the collective vision of the future of technological development in Silicon Valley and larger, more decentralized countercultural movements. Psychedelic drugs and psychedelic drug culture also played an important role during this time. Psychedelic drugs served as a "unifier of mediums" for many having experiences with plant hallucinogens. Many of the reports given by users taking these drugs seem to suggest that these hallucinogens are chemical means of providing a postmodal experience \'97 where the lines between mediums, blur, and meaning permeates multiple mediums making the distinction between them ultimately irrelevant. The culture surrounding these drugs is also deeply entwined with Silicon Valley at that time. Counterculture figures such as Timothy Leary had distinct visions for the future of VR. It was not uncommon for counterculture figures such as Leary and his associates to mingle with the developers in Silicon Valley working on VR (hackertrips 2015).\
Some practical more meta-level considerations had to be taken into account as well. At the time of this writing, I worked with a bulky HTC Vive headset. Due to the sheer physical constraints of this apparatus, display ergonomics must be considered. Most of these concerns were obvious but writing about and studying them explicitly aided in the avoidance of accidents in the lab. \
In addition to serving as a proof of concept for my research, I wanted the VR experience to be able to stand alone as a work of art. Aside from embodying all of the considerations listed above, the work would have to be representative of my own aesthetic \'96 a test that multiplies exponentially in its difficulty, and level of consideration required for execution when working with multiple mediums.\
One composer and multimedia artist Ge Wang has experimented extensively within this topic and written about the results of these experiments. Wang functions in a multimedia landscape that is based in music. One of Wang\'92s own design principles is to make a multimedia experience real time whenever possible  (Wang 2014, 2). \
}