{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In addition to outlining the influence of the commercial sector on modern research in this field, the workshop description highlights the fundamental challenge facing artists working in VR coming from computer music fields:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 However, most modern VR systems impart an ancillary role to audio, where sounds serve to amplify visual immersion. It is up to sound and music researchers to elaborate ways in which we can think natively about VR audio, and define the role of sound in the ultimate displays of the future. This workshop aims to investigate the concept of an \'93audio-first VR\'94 as a medium for musical expression, and identify multimodal experiences that focus on the auditory aspects of immersion rather than those that are ocular. (\'93NIME Workshop on Audio-First VR\'94 n.d.)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 A subtle but identifiable shift is taking place in the lineage of computer music. More artists are beginning to realize that a severely diminishing point of return has been reached in audio-only discoveries. For research in this field to continue to innovate, and discover new ground, it must redraw, or possibly eliminate the boundaries between audio and other mediums.\
As of this writing, it is a rare practice for a consumer of entertainment to single out one sensory mode of experience for their entertainment. What is much more common and accepted in society is to enjoy multimedia experiences that use multiple sensory modes at once, such as a film or a live concert. In addition to this, most contemporary people\'92s lives are dominated by a multimedia rich Internet accessible on personal devices at any time. Therefore, the audience is primed to experience multi-media as opposed to single-medium.\
Audio production is now one of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://12F0F483-C21D-4E7D-B681-36FCCC02856E"}}{\fldrslt easiest}} artistic mediums to produce content in. Video streaming sites such as YouTube are filled with tutorials by young high school age gurus teaching advanced concepts in music production, concepts that until 10 or so years ago would have been limited to study at the academy. There are a bevy of smartphone apps available that can produce musical results of a high quality (or at least of high enough quality to entertain the general audience). Video production and 3D animation will follow this same trajectory, but the limiting factor is available processing power. For such applications to become simplified and deployable on mobile devices, these devices must have sufficient processing power. Once becoming available on consumer level devices, the tools will be available to and usable by a wider range of creators.\
Many electronic musicians will argue that the research they are doing and the audio they are creating is pushing the boundary of what is possible with currently available software. However, most general listeners will never be able to hear the minute nuances that they are taking pains to create in the audio. One could perhaps argue that the listening capability of the average user will evolve to accommodate listening techniques necessary to perceive these small changes. However, this is not typically what happens in the domain of computer music. For example, when the synthesizer was invented, its audio quality was easily perceivable as different than any other acoustic instrument previously heard. This research into new sonic territories is relevant and important, but it is not suitable for communicating with a general audience. If the crusade of the composer is to more effectively communicate their ideas with a general audience, they must begin to look beyond sound as I believe many composers are already doing.\
As more composers continue to look beyond audio as the sole medium for artistic creation and as these audio production techniques become more available and more simplified for a general audience to use, the barrier to entry for using these techniques, and thus their value, is lowered significantly. If the composer is to continue creating art, requiring a high level of skill to create that also communicates their ideas effectively, the composer will have to think about how to thoughtfully integrate ideas from different mediums. There is a lot of stumbling going on with this at present. These are the early growing pains of this new discipline and way of understanding art. The divisions between mediums are murky or even nonexistent. These early missteps are positive. Criticism cannot be leveled against nothing it must be leveled against something. Beginning to foray into this new undivided terrain are the avant-garde composers and artists.\
The existing solution for composers looking beyond the medium is to branch out into exploration with multimedia, i.e. adding more mediums to accompany audio. This is typically accomplished through their own creation or through collaboration with an artist in another medium. This is a technique that has sufficed throughout the past few decades but is no longer viable because of how rapidly technology and new mediums are being invented. Ray Kurzweil details this phenomenon in his work The Singularity is Near. Kurzweil theorizes that as processing power grows exponentially, technological development will also grow exponentially. This is Kurzweil\'92s adaptation of Moore\'92s Law (Kurzweil 2005, 59\'9674). Kurzweil\'92s proposed end of this phenomenon is something he has dubbed the singularity. The singularity is the point at which technological development will happen at such a fast rate that humans will not be able to perceive it. Although the validity of this theory\'92s future implications is up for debate, Kurzweil\'92s formulation of Moore\'92s Law can be applied to technological development over the last century or so with reasonable accuracy. The implications of this are far-reaching and affect not only technology but also the artists that work with that technology.\
It is due to this exponential growth paradigm and Kurzweil\'92s formulation of Moore\'92s Law, that artists must prepare to abandon strict adherence to a set of mediums. Multimedia art is the first step in this liberation of medium. Soon, the artist will have to go further than this. The artist will have to learn how to take techniques and principles from their own discipline and rapidly apply it to new mediums, sometimes working with these mediums for the first time (and possibly the last time).}