{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The artist enters the world of the unknown, where he will be tested through a series of trials. Here the artist may be aided by advice or wisdom imparted by the protective figure he may have encountered during the departure phase. These trials for the artist can range from the trivial to the severe. Things such as computer problems or running out of art supplies could be seen in the vaguest sense as minor trials. More significant trials have notably been encountered by many artists\'97the fact that we have remembered and reported these details throughout history is a testament to the importance of the monomyth framework. The composer Dmitri Shostakovich had to have a microfilm version of the score for his 
\f1\i Symphony No. 7 \'93Leningrad\'94
\f0\i0  smuggled out of Russia for its premiere due to the cultural tyranny enforced by Stalin\'92s totalitarian regime. \
Terminology that Campbell uses to refer to these underworld trials include belly of the whale, and road of trials. The resolution to these low points include father atonement, which is a reckoning with the archetypal father, or tradition, and apotheosis, which is a nullification of opposite-pairs, such as the Buddha realized during his enlightenment.\
}