{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 After having completed the music-based VR environment 
\f1\i Spektra
\f0\i0 , testing it on participants, and using it in live performance, I reflected in a macrocosmic sense on the entirety of the project from the viewpoint of music composition. I wandered for some time in the VR realm, linked to music by a lengthy tether. In order to draw concrete conclusions from the work as it applies to modern music composition, I needed to create a framework of terminology and understanding that had previously existed in its components but not in its totality. This is always the charge of those that foray into VR development. VR does not have a long lineage like other artistic mediums, and it is essentially invisible technology since it can be used towards so many different practical, and wonderfully impractical ends. It seemed senseless to use the same frameworks posited by VR developers working in augmented reality surgery, or even to an extent, VR game {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://59A2F667-7B4F-42D1-9A1D-FEA008E1BA75"}}{\fldrslt design.}}\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 VR is a hard topic to explain because it\'92s hard to contain. It directly connects to every other discipline. (Lanier 2017, 54)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Following this argument, I conducted more research in order to forge a template for understanding, for containing a small subgenre of VR within a malleable net of definitions, and thus creating more music-based VR. This research was interesting, but ultimately not fulfilling as it related to music. Due to the music-centric nature of my approach, VR served merely as a vessel, my Kon-Tiki, that ferried me to the opposite shores of greater musical understanding. My journey as researcher paralleled Joseph Campbell\'92s hero\'92s journey: call to adventure (beginning the PhD program), night-sea journey (VR as vessel, research related musical performances), father atonement (linking my discovery with previous researchers in the field), return (putting this experience into words and concepts), and elixir (the dissertation document). This relation was interesting because of the significance I will detail later of Campbell\'92s monomyth as it relates to music.\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 The question I was seeking to answer on my night-sea journey was posed eloquently by Pierre Schaeffer in his preface to Michael Chion\'92s Guide to Sound Objects:\
But perhaps, on the other hand, you will come across something unexplained, surprising. Indeed, is not musical meaning, to which I am constantly referring without being able to define it, like other questions in life to which we do not know the answer? After all, does life have a meaning? Who can define it? Is there consensus about it? \
And even if we limit ourselves to music \'97 to Music even \'97 can these questions be answered? What is music? 
\f3\b What is its function? (or functions). Is it universal, singular, plural?
\f0\b0  Are musical works objects, in the sense of a product, or means of communication amongst human beings, or 
\f3\b more than that, a glimpse beyond, into that which we call, for example, the spiritual? 
\f0\b0 \
Now, without replying to such questions, since the sphinx itself gives up, we can accept or not accept that they are asked, that they prevail, somewhere, in the individual or collective unconscious. In short, in Music as well, we could distinguish, not atheists and believers, but those who believe in the here and now and those who believe in the beyond of music.\
With the result that across this whole debate there is a subtext (or a misunderstanding) which it would be good to clarify once and for all. Yes, for my part, I believe that music is more than music, that it is not a run of the mill, utilitarian or aesthetic object, but a 
\f3\b spiritual undertaking
\f0\b0 , or as an old Master used to say, a \'93beingful exercise\'94, an activity of the whole being. So I cannot deny that, sometimes, in the course of the most trivial musical theory, the most apparently technical experiment, the thesis of the spiritual reappeared, the intention of a going beyond which is difficult to name, but even more impossible to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://44134AF6-0DA1-4F09-90D1-BDF14FF7C344"}}{\fldrslt deny.}} (Chion 1983, 3\'964)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Since Schaeffer\'92s writing there has been little academic investigation into areas that might illuminate the answer to some or all of his questions. The conclusion of Schaeffer\'92s work is yet to be discovered, \'93\'85a treatise, not on musical objects, but on the musical work!\'94  (Chion 1983, 3). I am yet unable to offer a treatise on the musical work, but the structural analysis I have conducted on the research of others, as well as my own has largely been done where most academics have so far shamefully deigned to look \'97 in those disciplines deemed loosely related to music, unacademic, fringe, etc. These disciplines included the study of myth, the Jungian concepts of the collective unconscious and dream interpretation, and psychedelic drugs. Within these disciplines is precisely where Schaeffer\'92s treasure is to be found. What follows then, in this section is a map of the territory as I understand it, balancing between adherence to a common thread of music, and the creative proclivity, and necessity to wander. \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://15BA233D-35B2-4DD2-ADBC-874E0ED460C7"}}{\fldrslt The four interrelated starting points for this research will be presented first.}} I will explain their interrelatedness to each other. While establishing the interrelatedness of these initial disciplines, I will provide information on how these topics are synthesized into story. Finally, I will detail the conclusions reached in the course of this research, generalize the emergent approach, and present impetus for moving forward with this more story-centric approach to music making. In order to retain the common thread of music throughout, musical examples from the compositions of others, as well as my own will be given as examples for concepts being detailed. If one is to consider the totality of the framework that I have constructed as a geometrical form, each topic will serve to form a mold, or impression of part of the overall framework\'92s surface. It is interesting to note that the information must be unfolded in this vignetted manner despite the fact that all component topics suggest story, in a linear sense, to be the connecting feature.\
}