{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In 
\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0  the improvised synthesizer music dynamically affected what the VR-wearer saw in the headset. In the revised performance, titled 
\f1\i Abstruse
\f0\i0 , I wanted to more clearly link the two mediums. In 
\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0  the synthesizer music fit within the aesthetic that I was composing in at the time - heavily beat and drone based electronic music. In order to more closely mesh VR with the music, either the VR simulation, or the music would have to be modified. Due to the degree-focus being on music, and the advice of committee members to more completely develop and integrate the musical component of the work, I decided on modifying the music to more closely fit the simulation. \
Instead of operating in a beat-based paradigm, I tried to exemplify various facets of the VR work through sound design. I drew on inspiration from the visual elements, as well as the technology used to generate them. Visually, and technologically, it is obvious that the most used animation technique in 
\f1\i Spektra 
\f0\i0 is particle physics. From both a technological and aesthetic standpoint, the analog to particle physics in the audio domain is clearly granular synthesis. In each technique, variably-sized bits of a whole are being rendered over time according to rules that are typically systems-based, i.e. turbulence in a particle system, or speed of sound grains in granular synthesis. \
Using this technique, I developed an Ableton Live environment, utilizing multiple instances of MaxMSP to create a multi-track, high-density granular synthesis array. The source material to be granulated was largely unrecognizable after it had been granularized, so this afforded me a good deal of creative liberty to choose from a wide variety of source sounds. I chose a selection of psychedelic era music as homage to the extramusical concept I attempted with 
\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0 . For additional raw granular material, I used audio selections from the performance recording of 
\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0  - granulating across adjacent areas of this audio ensured that I would be able to create harmonious mixes of granularized material if the visuals called for it.\
Apart from granular synthesis, I also employed the use of software loopers, delays, and various other timbre shifting effects in the Ableton Live environment. These effects primarily served as real-time timbre modifiers on the raw output of my high-density granular synthesis array, allowing me to more tightly interweave the audio with the visuals.}