{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The connection between psychedelic drugs and VR is undeniable, but often, if not completely ignored in academic literature. A full account of the possibilities for VR development must include this connection. This link has been made known at various points throughout the history of VR. Douglas Rushkoff's 1994 field report on cyberpunk culture Cyberia (Rushkoff 1994) is a notable account of this. In this work, he interviews programmer Marc de Groot:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 "I think that people who like to expand their minds with things like higher math and computers and media are fundamentally the same people who would want to expand their minds with anything available. But this is a very bad political climate for talking about all this. You can't mix a thing like drugs with any intellectual endeavor and have it stay as credible." Yet, de Groot's apartment--which has one small bedroom dedicated to life's comforts and the rest filled with computer hardware--shows many signs of the alternative culture he prefers to keep out of the public eye. Dan Kottke's fractal Grateful Dead ticket is pinned to the wall next to the computer on which de Groot designed sound systems for VPL, the leading "VR" interface design firm... Modern day (Rushkoff 1994, 24)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Although de Groot's musing on the invalidity of "mixing a thing like drugs with any intellectual endeavor" was certainly true in 1994 when Cyberia was published, these stigmas are gradually disappearing. Psychologist Rick Strassman has begun to study one of these drugs:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 1991 began the first new research in the United States in over twenty years on the effects of psychedelic, or hallucinogenic, drugs on humans. These studies investigated the effects of N,N-dimethyltryptamine, or DMT, an extremely short-acting and powerful psychedelic. During the project's five years, I administered approximately four hundred doses of DMT to sixty human volunteers. This research took place at the University of New Mexico's School of Medicine in Albuquerque, where I was tenured Associate Professor of Psychiatry. (Strassmann 2001, xv)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 Strassman includes various session reports from his subjects. If taken out of context, most of these session reports could be understood as descriptions of a VR experience. One of Strassman's subjects, Aaron recounts, "...I saw a psychedelic, Day-Glo-colored space that approximated a room whose walls and floor had no clear separations or edges. It was throbbing and pulsing electrically..." (Strassmann 2001, 182)\
The connection between VR and psychedelic drugs for artistic purposes is also undergoing a resurgence. The internet forum website, Reddit has an entire section of the site devoted to "exploring the wonderful worlds created in VR whilst on psychedelics." (jonesRG, ShortBananaMan, and fightwithdogma 2015). In addition to this, avant-garde researchers are beginning to exploit existing games with the intent of creating "altered states of consciousness" in the user. The most eminent writer in this subfield is Jonathan Weinel. One of Weinel's experiments involves remixing the videogame 
\f2\i Quake
\f0\i0 . Through use of a MaxMSP patch, Weinel creates a version of Quake that attempts to put users in an altered state of consciousness. Weinel notes that many commercial games have attempted to portray these altered states, such as 
\f2\i Super Mario Brothers
\f0\i0 , 
\f2\i Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
\f0\i0 , and 
\f2\i Duke Nukem 3D
\f0\i0  (Weinel 2010, 23).\
}