{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Although there is a lot of new research into the VR field from the perspective of computer music, there already exists an entire lineage of research into VR specific technology, and more broadly the game mechanics employed in these spaces. Game studies programs are more widely established, and generally accepted in academic circles than they were 15 years ago. Some more forward thinking institutions have even gone so far as to offer scholarships for students that play video games competitively (Deppe 2017; Murmane 2017).\
As these programs grow, computer music composers interested in employing VR in their works can forge interesting collaborations with creators in game design programs in order to create simulations that are both well designed from a game design standpoint, and potentially utilize audio in a novel way (Simmons 2017) Many computer musicians are already extremely adept at creating game mechanics for musicians to explore. This point has been illustrated countless times through "game pieces" (Zorn 1984), graphic scores (Haubenstock-Ramati 1976; Feldman 1951; Stockhausen 1992) , and real time interactive scores (Kim-Boyle 2014). In addition to the creative potential of these collaborations, a productive solidarity stands to be gained from forging a strong connection between computer music and game studies. Game studies is still young compared to other programs in academia. It's establishment in academia mirrors the beginnings of early computer music programs. Computer music was the product of a coming together of engineers and musicians. At present day, a postmodal art field could be the product of a mutually beneficial coming together of computer musicians that could benefit from a collaborator with more computer programming {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://487F9416-BC59-4D5D-BC55-814C4E940824"}}{\fldrslt prowess,}} and computer programmers that could benefit from a collaborator with a sensibility for game mechanics unprecedented so far in the industry. \
Papers in the game studies corpus address wide ranging topics including techniques, psychological studies, musings on artistic topics, as well as many others. Papers detailing less rigorously game-specific techniques, such as those explaining the different ways in which audio can be used to describe narrative events in a game (J\'f8rgensen 2008), contain a wealth of information that can be abstracted into the computer music domain, even in works that only employ audio. Jorgenson states, "...the results demonstrate that audio and gameplay are closely integrated, and that the specific function of any sound signal in the game is highly dependent on contextual interpretation." (J\'f8rgensen 2008, 5). These findings could be applied to development in a purely musical domain. Human psychology is also explored throughout the game studies literature. One such compelling piece that may be useful to computer musicians is 
\f1\i Balancing Risk and Reward to Develop an Optimal Hot-Hand Game
\f0\i0  (Williams et al. 2011). The purpose of William et al.'s experiment was to create a game that took advantage of the hot hand phenomenon. The hot hand phenomenon originated in basketball. The hot hand phenomenon is defined as follows \'97 if a player experiences success in a random challenge, their belief increases that they will continue to experience success. The purpose of the simulation created by Williams, et al. was to create a game that would give players the sensation of this hot hand phenomenon, and then use the game to research the statistics of the hot hand phenomenon. The implications of this research on music are plentiful. Computer musicians could use this information in the creation of their own game pieces, including multimedia, or not, to psychologically bait players into experiencing the hot hand phenomena. Not only is the game studies literature full of information that computer musicians can port to their own projects, it also offers a bridge between the computer music and game studies disciplines. This common understanding of jargon and concepts can more easily facilitate communication between collaborators, and inspire computer musicians to create more mindfully and with more regard for established practices for the VR platform.\
}