{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b\fs20 \cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Music-VR and Postmodal Art\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Real Time Whenever Possible\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}VR Musical Instruments\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	2.	}Other Research\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li1440\fi-1440\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Video Games\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Game Studies\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Science Fiction\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Lanier, VPL, and Silicon Valley Culture\
{\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}Psychedelic Drugs
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 The rapidly shifting terrain of media technologies available to the modern composer is denser than any previous era. The composer has at their disposal an unprecedented number of creative tools all with various preconfigured assets designed to make creating more rapid. This unprecedented landscape of tools subverts existing compositional approaches. In previous eras, composing for a set instrumentation, and taking months of time to work on a composition made sense. During the time of Beethoven for example, the most immediate feedback providing tool that was at the composer\'92s disposal was the piano. This audio feedback mechanism would allow  a composer to \'93beta-test\'94 pitches and rhythms but would not be capable of simulating timbre, envelope, or many other facets of sound. This rough approximation of the final composition necessitated a slower paced, more arduous compositional process. Despite the insistence of many composers steeped in this tradition, this approach must be questioned in regards to new technology available to the modern composer. Modern compositional technology allows hyper-realistic simulation of the final composition in the case of traditional {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://ADC3F99F-4367-4D4D-B522-69FAC083FF7F"}}{\fldrslt composition.}} In many cases, such as in that of many types of electronic music, the composer now works directly with the final composition, in real time. Applying traditional approaches of composition to these new technologies is far from idiomatic.\
Research on the avant-garde realm of compositional tools suggests that the very adherence of these tools to a strictly sonic medium is beginning to dissolve in favor of more postmodal paradigms. The lineage of research becomes more obfuscated as the tools being research integrate widely disparate artistic disciplines. This obfuscation necessitates branching out into tangentially related fields of study. For the electronic music composer interested in expanding into VR development, research in video games, psychedelic drugs, and other fields have proven to be advantageous for research. In addition to these outside fields, studying writings on music technology, and abstracting these concepts into the postmodal domain should occupy the core of this research. \
}