{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The artist must start somewhere. Any artist that has been creating for some time realizes that one of the hardest parts of the creative process is getting started. Oftentimes, genuine creativity arises for the artist when he makes a mistake that leads him into uncharted territory. \'93A blunder\'97apparently the merest chance\'97reveals an unsuspected world, and the individual is drawn into a relationship with forces that are not rightly understood.\'94 (Campbell 2008, 42). Regardless of if the artist begins with a blunder or direct intention, in our Western education system, a mentor is usually present, \'93\'85a protective figure (often a little old crone or old man) who provides the adventurer with amulets against the dragon forces he is about to pass.\'94 (Campbell 2008, 57). This Departure stage symbolizes the passing of the artist from the world as they know it into the unknown\'97Orpheus crossing into the Underworld, or the drug taker leaving the garden and entering past the hagazussa into the wilderness, or the artist willing a new piece into existence. \
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 \'85the hero goes forward in his adventure until he comes to the \'93threshold guardian\'94 at the entrance to the zone of magnified power. Such custodians bound the world in four directions\'97also up and down\'97standing for the limits of the hero\'92s present sphere, or life horizon. Beyond them is a darkness, the unknown, and danger; just as beyond the parental watch is danger to the infant and beyond the protection of his society danger to the member of the tribe. (Campbell 2008, 64)\

\f1\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}