{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://E9EECDF0-C406-424D-9FF9-D9E07FEF13B7"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 A small amount of research}}
\f0\fs24  has already been conducted by computer musicians in this domain. Serafin et al. in their paper 
\f1\i VR Musical Instruments: State of the Art, Design Principles, and Future Directions
\f0\i0  propose that the computer musician designing for virtual reality \'93make use of existing skills\'94.\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 Users of traditional instruments may not even be interested in using virtual replicas, since the original ones work well. Instead, we should discover the kinds of interfaces that are best suited for the VR medium. Using metaphors derived from interactions existing in the real world offer interesting possibilities. (Serafin et al. 2016, 27)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 The gist of this principle is partially correct - VR musical interfaces should be unique to VR yet be based on existing musical instrument paradigms. This has been previously articulated by product designers such as Dieter Rams, e.g. "Good design makes a product understandable" (Domingo 2017). Understandable, from the musician\'92s perspective, could be defined as using familiar gestures to the user\'92s physical musical instrument. However, when designing for this platform, one must also consider that videogame-based paradigms have already been established. Considering that many computer musicians begin, at some point, as acoustic musicians, and at the very least are surrounded by acoustic musician colleagues during their academic journey, the point that must be discussed is acquisition of knowledge pertaining to video game-based VR paradigms. There are three useful acclimitization exercises for the computer musician attempting to make a foray into the VR platform: reading about VR development, experiencing VR games, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8D59C63F-9903-42A0-924B-0BFD1570520E"}}{\fldrslt modding.}} Reading about VR development can equip the computer musician with a robust theoretical knowledge of the platform. The research presented by Serafin, et al. does a wonderful job of synthesizing a wide range of papers in this vein. Yet, one should not devote all their time to this practice. To use a musical comparison, devoting all of one\'92s time to reading papers on the topic would be akin to merely reading Beethoven scores, but never listening to the music \'97 theoretical knowledge is obtained, but something profound is missed. Simply playing a wide range of VR games can be illuminating as to what game mechanics work well and which ones work poorly. This research can be thoroughly enjoyable. One should allow themselves to be immersed entirely in the game without critically thinking so that they have an authentic experience. After completing the game, one should immediately journal about the experience to turn the experience into actionable knowledge. Finally, another potent \'e9tude for computer musicians expanding into VR is to modify existing games. There is both an existing body of research on this {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://281E8363-A160-4199-9863-CA40F965EF49"}}{\fldrslt practice}} and a huge online community of both niche and widespread mods. Mods in this online community range from practical ones such as higher resolution textures for existing games (Livingston 2017), to entirely new games built on an existing platform (Montero 2012).These considerations guarantee that computer musicians will be able to create environments that make use of both the idiomatic design elements derived from musicians as well as gamers.\
Whether music is being fed into the VR simulation from a live musician, or from a recording, the ideal simulation should be able to track significant changes in tone in a way that most accurately approximates real-time with minimal latency. What is minimal latency? Drawing from my own experience as a music technologist, I approached the question from the perspective of digital audio. A common introductory experiment in music technology is to play a sawtooth oscillator for an audience at its lowest frequency, for this example 5 Hz. At 5 Hz, the sawtooth oscillator produces a rhythmic clicking at the pace of 5 times per second. At this frequency every audience member can hear separate click events. As one increases the frequency of the oscillator, the clicks become faster, and eventually turns into a contiguous tone. The frequency at which this occurs can vary from about as low as 10 Hz for some individuals to about 30 Hz in others. The number most commonly given in this range as the low end of the range of human hearing is 20 Hz. The speed of oscillations at 20 Hz calculates to one oscillation every 50 milliseconds. Unsurprisingly this is the same latency time that Meehan et al. give as their proposal for latency speed in a \'93low latency\'94 system. In the visual domain, other researchers have discovered that participants are able to extract some visual meaning from photos that were viewed for just 13 milliseconds (Potter et al. 2014). \
My research suggests that to make a VR simulation perceived as real time to the user, the speed at which audio is tracked, musical analysis is performed, and a virtual manifestation of this data is created in the simulation should occur at an ideal speed of 13 milliseconds and must occur at a speed faster than 20 milliseconds. Speeds slower than this will be suboptimal for the user. Musicians in both recorded music and live music are the perfect data sources for this low latency system. Musicians are quite comfortable dealing with these extremely low latency time constraints, have the capability to provide high resolution data at these speeds, and are artistically {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A6456566-F04D-466C-B911-EBA6E4F7640B"}}{\fldrslt expressive.}} \
}