{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This rule holds true on two different levels of development for the platform. Firstly, the environment must respond in real time to the user. This real time responsiveness invites users to play and interact as if the environment was a living thing. Overuse of fixed media on such a dynamic platform creates an experience that is stale for the user. An overly fixed environment allows a user to feel as though they are in the scene, but the lack of interaction creates a sense of being separated from the simulation. Secondly, the system must be as low {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://F8AEBFEF-2D69-47B0-9B8C-6921D99363E5"}}{\fldrslt latency}} as possible. On the VR platform, a low latency system would be less than approximately 50 milliseconds, and a high latency system would be more than approximately 90 milliseconds (Meehan et al. 2003). If latency is present in the system, it must be intentional, and thus the result of careful consideration and conscious design. Unintentional high latency risks unwittingly making the user sick at worst and disconnected from the experience at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C74C34C7-47D2-449D-8712-604BC73B8DB2"}}{\fldrslt best.}} When in doubt, VR environments must have a high resolution of user response and utilize low latency unless there are intentional reasons for doing otherwise.\
Real time input is essential to keep the composer, the tone poet at the center of postmodal artistic creation. Musicians are masters of time. Unlike studio art, music cannot exist outside of time. A musical sample frozen in time on the computer cannot be heard but can only be experienced and only exist over time. The same phenomenon cannot be applied to any other medium. Film is the closest application of this phenomenon. Film can partially exist outside of time. The fundamental unit of film is the frame. If one is to examine one frame of the film outside of the confines of time, the viewer will likely be able to extrapolate some limited meaning from the individual frame. Dance is another close representation of this time-necessary phenomenon. One of the primary features of dance is motion. Motion can only exist in time. However, eliminating time from dance and witnessing a dancer frozen in motion, frozen in time, the viewer may still be able to extrapolate meaning from things such as costume, posture, etc. Despite the recurring and persistent attempts of music technologists to force us to consider music as platonic, physical {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://58035D5C-B27A-45EA-BD60-710FB7B240E6"}}{\fldrslt objects,}} music is the only medium that cannot exist outside of time.\
The simplest and most accurate definition of time is change. In music, change occurs on micro and macro levels. At the micro level, there are soundwaves. Soundwaves by their nature consist of change, i.e. fluctuations in amplitude at various speeds. Musical change occurs at macro levels, such as when notes change in the progression of a scale or melody. \
When I say that musicians are masters of time, I mean that they are masters of time through years of rigorous practice. Time is the unifying element between all genres of music. Pieces of music may evoke a sense of timelessness, such as Olivier Messiaen\'92s 
\f1\i Quartet for the End of Time
\f0\i0 , but they must still exist with time. If one is to examine the practice habits of the classically trained musician, one will observe primarily that the practicing of scales and \'e9tudes form a significant portion of the musicians practice routine. These scales and \'e9tudes at the most fundamental level, are exercises for practicing change in a metered way that is aesthetically pleasing to the music that they intend on performing. \
Musicians are also highly adept at creating a robust data stream in real time. If one is to consider their mastery of time a skill in the horizontal domain of music, then the vertical domain of music is the data resolution of events occurring across this horizontal domain. The data resolution is comprised by the notes, tones, techniques, etc. that occupy these time-spaces. Some of the musician\'92s practice time is also dedicated to honing technique in this vertical domain. One such practice is \'93long tones\'94. During long tone practice the musician sustains notes for long amounts of time paying minute attention to the quality of tone. This practice is undertaken with the goal of integrating the ideal tone into music that exists in the time domain. It is these two domains, time and data resolution, that make the musician and the musical instrument compelling tools for VR data input. The musician and instrument then become both a high speed and high-resolution input device for the system, the kind of which is unprecedented in existing models such as the handheld controller.\
}