{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 	Many participants seemed to be very confused about how to approach the 
\f1\i MKUltra 
\f0\i0 performance. As the art director of all technology and mediums being used in the performance, this insight personally eluded me until several months after the performance had occurred. Viewing the project through a less technologically encumbered lens I was able to understand how the polydirectional nature of the work could have confused participants. Walking into the space was itself overwhelming. The participant would find themselves dwarved by three floor-to-ceiling projections of flickering, vaguely prophetic phrases, individuals lying on the ground with their smartphones lying over their eyes, strange, loud synthesizer sounds swirling around the space, and a cyberpunk VR apparatus with wearer at what one would likely perceive to be the \'93front\'94 of the space, although any conception of direciton would have quickly evaporated upon entering the theater. I loved the chaos, and in a more open-minded time period of \'93be-ins\'94 and \'93happenings\'94 this open-format concept could have succeeded, but for many of the participants experiencing 
\f1\i MKUltra
\f0\i0  in 2018, in a traditional performance space, this kind of verbose and expansive non-narrative experience proved to be confusing.\
The simplification of this setup took place in two phases. Firstly I began with a negative process of removal. Considering that the scope of my dissertation was to mainly be focused on the relationship between music and VR, I stripped away all unrelated elements first. I decided that the next iteration would not contain machine learning, non-VR visuals, lighting design, Google Cardboard applications, or even print materials. The second phase of simplification involved a more robust integration of music and virtual reality, which resulted in a more postmodal experience.}