{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In order to properly delve into the research on the psychedelic class of drugs, it must first be clearly defined. Terrence McKenna was one of the most eminent researchers in this field. His research, presented in the book Food of the Gods outlines the history of these drugs, and their meaning in culture. McKenna outlines psychedelic drugs as follows:\
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs20 Psychedelic plants and experience were first suppressed by European civilization, then ignored and forgotten. The fourth century witnessed the suppression of the mystery religions\'97the cults of Bacchus and Diana, of Attis and Cybele. The rich syncretism that was typical of the Hellenistic world had become a thing of the past. Christianity triumphed over the Gnostic sects\'97Valentinians, Marcionites, and others\'97which were the last bastions of paganism. These repressive episodes in the evolution of Western thought effectively closed the door on communication with the Gaian mind. Hierarchically imposed religion and, later, hierarchically dispensed scientific knowledge were substituted for any sort of direct experience of the mind behind nature. \
The intoxicants of the Christian dominator culture, whether plants or synthetic drugs, were inevitably stimulants or narcotics\'97 drugs of the workplace or drugs to dull care and pain. Drugs in the twentieth century serve only medical or recreational purposes. Yet even the West has retained the thin thread of remembrance of the Archaic, hierophantic, and ecstatic potential that certain plants hold. \
The survival through long centuries in Europe of witchcraft and rites involving psychoactive plants attests that the gnosis of entering parallel dimensions by altering brain chemistry was never entirely lost. The plants of European witchcraft\'97thorn apple, mandrake, and nightshade\'97did not contain indole hallucinogens but were nevertheless capable of inducing intense altered states of consciousness. \
The Archaic connection of feminism to a magical dimension of risk and power was clearly perceived as a threat by the medieval church: As late as the Middle Ages the witch was still the [hagazussa], a being that sat on the Hag, the fence, which passed behind the gardens and separated the village from the wilderness. She was a being who participated in both worlds. As we might say today, she was semi-demonic. In time, however, she lost her double features and evolved more and more into a representation of what was being expelled from culture, only to return, distorted, in the night. That these plants were the basis for entry into other dimensions was the result of the relative paucity in Europe of hallucinogen-containing {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1E275D86-82A3-4E29-A1F1-B89CD4DEC50F"}}{\fldrslt species.}} (McKenna 1993, 117) \
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0 If one looks past the densely ornamented prose that is characteristic of McKenna\'92s writings, some key points emerge:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}At present day, drugs are almost entirely used for recreational or medicinal purposes.\
{\listtext	2.	}Psychedelic drugs enable easy communication with a universal {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://63DE4854-DD53-4AC8-AD53-D4D9747F4CE9"}}{\fldrslt consciousness}} through reliable production of altered states of consciousness.\
{\listtext	3.	}Despite the intentional oppression of the use of psychedelic drugs, it is people, i.e. groups that kept their use alive. The role of these people is archetypically significant, and observable across cultures and eras.\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Examining each of these conclusions in more detail provides strong links between psychedelics, VR, and music. Their direct relevance to music, with corresponding point-numbers to the above is as following:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}In the current musical era, music is primarily listened to for recreational or medicinal purposes such as boosting one\'92s mood, entertainment, relaxing, etc.\
{\listtext	2.	}An establishment of some form of collective unconscious is necessary for the musician to understand in order to create music that is relatable past the level of individual consciousness. It is the fundamental substrate for creating meaning in music.\
{\listtext	3.	}The role of creative musician is archetypically similar to that of the roles occupied by the psychedelic takers \'97 those that are permitted passage by the \'93hagazussa\'94 that sits on the fence that separates order and chaos.\
}