{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When designing for any new technological medium, it is advantageous to look towards the writings of science fiction writers. Science fiction writings contain a wealth of insightful information about VR. The ideal sci-fi author to study has an established track record of reasonably correct predictions and creates concepts that are inspiring to the reader. William Gibson meets both criteria in the field of VR. Gibson's work 
\f1\i Neuromancer
\f0\i0  (W. F. Gibson 1997) is the seminal work of the cyberpunk genre. Gibson coined the now widely used term "cyberspace" (W. Gibson 1982),predicted the ubiquity of the web, and foresaw the field of VR's expansion. Gibson also creates works that are inspiring to the reader. 
\f1\i Neuromancer
\f0\i0  was the first novel to win the Phillip K. Dick Award, the Hugo, and the Nebula (Cumming 2014). The Cyberpunk genre as a whole is succinctly summed up as "high tech low life" (Ketterer 1992). I do not know of a more apt summary for the spirit of computer music's inventive spirit now applied towards expansion into virtual {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8F0A5730-0074-433B-A39B-1DF2B2C942BD"}}{\fldrslt multimedia.}} Although his company VPL Research is now defunct, Lanier still writes visionary works that include troves of information on possible frameworks and uses for VR technology such as You Are Not a Gadget (Lanier 2010).}