{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The next step in my own research is to perform a more quantitative analysis of user impressions in response to inclusion or reduction of mediums in a work to establish a correllation between the number of mediums included in a work and the level of perceived immersion. In order to do this I would create, or have an artist create a work that could be experienced through a variable number of mediums. An example of this might be an acousmatic piece, with an experimental (silent) film that accompanies it. A large number of users would then be shown either soley the acousmatic work, or the acousmatic work plus the film. User reports of rougly one page would then be solicited from participants. After collecting a large number of these user reports I would utilize {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://74A2FFF5-B87B-4BAF-BF94-F872085DD390"}}{\fldrslt natural language processing algorithms}} to analyze the text to derive insights into if and how the number of mediums changed the users\'92 perceived levels of immersion.\
The future for this kind of development is promising. Although universities used to sit at the forefront of new technological developments, I believe that the biggest movers in this postmodal area are commercial industries, particularly small VR startups. This does not reflect a lack of innovation on the part of the university, but rather a confusion about how to successfully integrate a more postmodal approach to artistic creation without completely abandoning a traditional deliniation between mediums. There are of course many programs at academic institutions that go by names such as \'93multimedia art\'94, \'93experimental media\'94, etc. however these programs seem to emphasize adoption of one or more mediums instead of seeing the whole range of mediums as a continuum. It is my hope that these disciplines will continue to look across traditional intermedium divisions while still retaining a sense of artistry instead of becoming technologically dominant such as the computer science related disciplines.\
}