{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx8640\li720\ri0\sl264\slmult1\sb240\sa240\pardirnatural\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs20 ...developers should be mindful of the potential strain and discomfort introduced by wearing an HMD and of the issues currently introduced by wires (e.g., a 360-degree turn can leave the user entangled). (Serafin et al. 2016, 28)\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1 During the development of my VR environment, I began beta testing with musicians. A test with one of my subjects, Silk Road shakuhaichi player, Kojiro Umezaki highlighted the importance of considering display ergonomics. Once Kojiro had put on the headset, he began with a few steady tones on the shakuhaichi to ensure that the simulation was ready, and tracking audio. After verifying this, he launched into a quick flurry of notes, settling on a long, sustained tone. Throughout the duration of this sustained note, Kojiro began shaking his head more and more rapidly to create vibrato on the instrument, as is a common practice on shakuhaichi. Due to the weight of the HMD being used , the headset migrated out of alignment on his head. These are important considerations to keep in mind for computer musicians developing for the current wave of VR HMDs. There is an exception to this consideration if one is working on long term development. The general sentiment is that the future of VR will be on mobile devices, not on bulky, computer-tethered HMDs. Eminent figures such as co-founder of Oculus VR, Jack McCauley have echoed this sentiment (TechRadar 2017). }