{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Approaching this kind of postmodal development without any kind of formal framework. I found it helpful to think about the design process both before creating the work and during the development phase. The question that was continuously at the back of my mind during the development process was \'93What is music\'92s unique contribution to virtual reality?\'94\
I sourced my research extremely widely. When doing research on art that exists outside of a strict medium, it made sense to source from a wide range of formal and informal disciplines. After reading narrowly within the field of music technology, as well as widely in many other fields, it became clear to me that a survey of purely musical literature would not do for the creation of this VR project. Bringing in knowledge from other fields seemed to be at the very core of VR innovation, so it followed that sources for design frameworks should come from various disciplines. Sourcing widely is the most important design principle for computer musicians foraying into VR territory. The artist must constantly be observing and sourcing widely to create new design principles. VR is a major step in a progression in which various mediums will start to converge into postmodality. After a long period of segregation by medium, disparate fields will reintegrate. Richard Wagner\'92s only failure in his concept of gesamtkuntswerk was that he was a thinker too far ahead of his time. Wagner\'92s integration of various mediums created groundbreaking works of art, but unless one had robust financial support and extensive human {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://6FAFB1E5-26AC-4425-AD0C-AC12D5492A10"}}{\fldrslt resources}} it would have been nearly impossible for an individual artist to do this in a convincing manner during Wagner\'92s active years. Similarly, Jaron Lanier\'92s ideas for the VR platform were visionary but unfortunately too far ahead of the state of consumer grade technology, thus prohibiting their wide adoption, and ultimately enough monetary revenue to continue {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A0249A73-E61D-4B14-8098-ECE88D4D0E8B"}}{\fldrslt developing.}} These roadblocks are becoming less imposing with the introduction of new technologies that allow creators to make aesthetically pleasing works in any digital medium, and some physical ones. An example of this in the physical space is the 3D printer. The 3D printer allows anyone familiar with 3D modeling software to fabricate their own physical goods, something that would\'92ve been prohibitively expensive until the introduction of this new technology. Opportunities for intersections of knowledge across fields are extensive, and have a long lineage in the arts, but are also starting to appear with more frequency in information science fields (Baguyos 2016).\
When approaching creation in a new medium, the artist must consider what the component parts of the medium are and what might be researched to inform creation. Through the study of these component parts, the artist, applying their own portable aesthetic to the new field can begin to discover what rules work with their aesthetic and what rules go against it and should be broken. For building a music-based VR simulation, I decided to look at several component fields \'97 science fiction, psychedelic drugs, video games/game studies, and music-based multimedia art.\
When designing for any new technological medium, it is advantageous to look towards the writings of science fiction writers. Science fiction writings contain a wealth of insightful information about VR. The ideal sci-fi author to study has an established track record of reasonably correct predictions and creates concepts that are inspiring to the reader. William Gibson meets both criteria in the field of VR. Gibson\'92s work Neuromancer (W. F. Gibson 1997) is the seminal work of the cyberpunk genre. Gibson coined the now widely used term "cyberspace" (W. Gibson 1982), predicted the ubiquity of the web, and foresaw the field of VR\'92s expansion. Gibson also creates works that are inspiring to the reader. Neuromancer was the first novel to win the Phillip K. Dick Award, the Hugo, and the Nebula (Cumming 2014). The Cyberpunk genre as a whole is succinctly summed up as "high tech low life" (Ketterer 1992). I do not know of a more apt summary for the spirit of computer music\'92s inventive spirit now applied towards expansion into virtual {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://8F6CF56D-96AC-4E53-801D-9D947A063AD8"}}{\fldrslt multimedia.}}}